He was writing his sermon.
He'd locked his room.
He wanted none to break his thoughts.
No one would ever disturb him.
He was alone, alone, alone.
He was fixing his false teeth,
behind closed doors.
He wanted none to peep in on his secret.
No one would want to know if he had teeth.
He was alone, alone, alone.
He was counting his coins,
in the darkness of his shabby hut.
He wanted none to know his wealth.
No one wanted his meager sum.
He was alone, alone, alone.
You and I are all like them,
locked behind our own doors,
not wanting to be pried into.
Not knowing how isolated we are.
We are just alone, alone, alone.

alone in my darknees
i was alone...
alone i live in my darkness..
no one share me..
no one considerated my feelings..
i was a human without sense...
without loving....
and i was without heart....
i wasn`t saw in my darknees, only myself..
and my blackest dark..
suddenly.. a light came to me from a far way..
yes, its come and be near and close to me..
its come and its lights my darkness..
its let me to see around me..
its knowing me who was near me...
then i became not alone
i am with others..
became a human shared in feelings with others..
i became a human with a feelings..
with a loving....
and i was with a heart....
suddenly agian, a lights wants to go...
after its lights my darkness..
and after its make my heart a white..
no, no, don`t let my heart become agian blackest..
and don`t let me be agian alone...
plz don`t do.....

Alone i lay on a wooden raft
Alone i stay in the dark
Alone i pray to survive
Alone i may not survive
Alone i look out the sea
Alone i wake up on the sea
Alone i seek out for help
Alone i may not survive
Alone i eat my dry food
Alone i drink the salty water
Alone i sit in the cold
Alone i may not survive
Alone, yes, alone i stare at the storm
Alone, yes, alone i live on the sea
Alone, yes, alone i wait for the rescue boat
Alone, yes, alone i may not survive
Alone, yes, alone i pray to be safe
Alone, yes, alone i call out for help
Alone, yes, alone i get on the boat
Alone, yes, alone i was rescued
Alone, yes, alone i lived on sea for months
Alone, yes, alone i walk ashore unaided
Alone, yes, alone i continue to hold the
Guinness World Record for survival at sea

Lying, thinking
Last night
How to find my soul a home
Where water is not thirsty
And bread loaf is not stone
I came up with one thing
And I don't believe I'm wrong
That nobody,
But nobody
Can make it out here alone.
Alone, all alone
Nobody, but nobody
Can make it out here alone.
There are some millionaires
With money they can't use
Their wives run round like banshees
Their children sing the blues
They've got expensive doctors
To cure their hearts of stone.
But nobody
No, nobody
Can make it out here alone.
Alone, all alone
Nobody, but nobody
Can make it out here alone.
Now if you listen closely
I'll tell you what I know
Storm clouds are gathering
The wind is gonna blow
The race of man is suffering
And I can hear the moan,
'Cause nobody,
But nobody
Can make it out here alone.
Alone, all alone
Nobody, but nobody
Can make it out here alone.

As she sits alone on the hillside watching the sunrise
Silence is golden, movement is absent
Upon the grassy fields she sees shadowing darkness
The freshness in the air surrounds her intensely
Silence is golden,  movement is absent
Dawn breaks, the skies come alive
The freshness in the air surrounds her intensely
Birds flutter freely tweetering 'good morning'
Dawn breaks, the skies come alive
Upon the grassy fields she sees shadowing darkness
Birds flutter freely tweetering 'good morning'
As she sits alone on the hillside watching the sunrise

There was darkness under Heaven
For an hour's space--
Darkness that we knew was given
Us for special grace.
Sun and noon and stars were hid,
God had left His Throne,
When Helen came to me, she did,
Helen all alone!
Side by side (because our fate
Damned us ere our birth)
We stole out of Limbo Gate
Looking for the Earth.
Hand in pulling hand amid
Fear no dreams have known,
Helen ran with me, she did,
Helen all alone!
When the Horror passing speech
Hunted us along,
Each laid hold on each, and each
Found the other strong.
In the teeth of Things forbid
And Reason overthrown,
Helen stood by me, she did,
Helen all alone!
When, at last, we heard those Fires
Dull and die away,
When, at last, our linked desires
Dragged us up to day;
When, at last, our souls were rid
Of what that Night had shown,
Helen passed from me, she did,
Helen all alone!
Let her go and find a mate,
As I will find a bride,
Knowing naught of Limbo Gate
Or Who are penned inside.
There is knowledge God forbid
More than one should own.
So Helen went from me, she did,
Oh, my soul, be glad she did!
Helen all alone!

I walk alone amongst the crowd
My heart still bleeding, pounding loud
Through darkened streets, I walk alone
I have no one to call my own
I need someone to ease the pain
To stop these tears that fall like rain
Alone I walk
To myself I talk
My teers tear apart
My broken heart
Charles R. Brunty

ON the beach at night alone,
As the old mother sways her to and fro, singing her husky song,
As I watch the bright stars shining--I think a thought of the clef of
the universes, and of the future.
A VAST SIMILITUDE interlocks all,
All spheres, grown, ungrown, small, large, suns, moons, planets,
comets, asteroids,
All the substances of the same, and all that is spiritual upon the
same,
All distances of place, however wide,
All distances of time--all inanimate forms,
All Souls--all living bodies, though they be ever so different, or in
different worlds,
All gaseous, watery, vegetable, mineral processes--the fishes, the
brutes,                                                      10
All men and women--me also;
All nations, colors, barbarisms, civilizations, languages;
All identities that have existed, or may exist, on this globe, or any
globe;
All lives and deaths--all of the past, present, future;
This vast similitude spans them, and always has spann'd, and shall
forever span them, and compactly hold them, and enclose them.

You alone I love, you alone I worship. [Poem]
Until I die my breath will guard you,
And my memories after.
In my death none I like to weep for me,
If you shed a dropp of tear, I will sprout again from the mud.
To love you to guard you to serve you.
I am born to love you alone
And I will die for your love too.
In the world here after, I will love, love you alone.
What else shall I say when my love for you is full?
What shall I think but you  when you are the truth.
I will but love you, Let them stone at me.
You alone I love, you alone I worship.
I m made to sing your melodies, care not the world hear or not.
Until I die my breath will guard you,
And my memories after.
In my death none I like to weep for me,
If you shed a dropp of tear, I will sprout again from the mud.
To love you to guard you to serve you.

Maybe I have wings
That only need to stretch
For you to see them
The wings that you may see
Are not of the brightest white
But of black with hints of red
I’m not the fairy light of innocence
I don’t shine with unnatural brightness
My thoughts are not the purest
I’m an angel of a different kind
Not the one that sings glory in high or praises Halleluiah
You won’t meet me at St. Peters gates
I’m a dark sort of being
And I may not be the chosen guardian
But I will still guard from afar
Know that I will always be watching
And praying for your well being
And from me love will always be flowing
A dark angelic being
Misunderstood in living
An angel of a different kind

There's an angel in my pocket
who is watching over me,
just a little voice down deep inside
that I can hear, not see.
I wish that I could let her out
so that everyone could see
'cause we have the greatest secrets,
many things she shares with me.
She whispers little things to do
to make my parents glad
and tells me when there's something
that I want to do that's bad.
Oh I wish that I could see her
not just hear her talk to me...
it's just a little voice down deep inside
that I can hear, not see.

I saw an angel with a broken wing
I saw an angel cry
I mended it with bits of string
And told her she could fly.
I handed her my handkerchief
To wipe the tear away
And told her all was well again
I think I made her day.
She thanked me with an angel's kiss
And like a butterfly
She closed her wings then opened them
And rose into the sky.
Now she is back in heaven
And I'm here on the ground
And I think somehow that we got
Our roles the wrong way round.

How do I say this?
I guess I'll start out with 'thank you.'
It's always seemed that I was never really able to explain
How much you mean to me
How all those conversations that you probably didn't think twice about
Made me feel so blessed just to know you
You've been more than just a friend, you've been my guardian angel
Some of my other friends watch out for me
And they sometimes help me when I'm depressed
But you were always there to find out what was the matter even if no one else was
You were always so persistant, asking 'What's wrong? Is there anything I can do? '
Sometimes the answer was no, no one could help me
And yet you didn't give up. 'Please tell me if you're willing, I just want to make you feel better.'
You got annoying sometimes, you were so stubborn.
Thank you.
You weren't perfect, no, no one is, but it always seemed to me that you were so close.
I guess I wanted to be more like you, because you were such a wonderful person
Most friends don't last forever, I know,
But I've been praying that you and I stay friends for eternity
Because otherwise I don't think I can make it
Without you my life would be worthless
What would I do with myself? I wouldn't know where to go
But you've always been there to guide me, helping me even when you didn't realize it.
I could've sworn that your mere presence was slowly healing old wounds
You made me laugh, and you would have cried with me if I'd asked
I don't think I can express in words how grateful I am to you, just for putting up with me.
I know it must be hard.
Knowing you surely won't mind, I hope I can ask just one more favor?
Never stop being who you are
And never leave me. I know I drive you up the wall sometimes but I need you.
Thank you, my guardian angel.
My fallen angel.

limestone, with traces of polychromy, c. 1250
Point Dume was the point,
he said, but we never came close,
no matter how far we walked the shale
broken from California.
Someone's garden
had slipped, hanging itself by a vine
from the cliffs of some new Babylon
past Malibu.
Drowning the words,
the wind didn't fling back in our faces,
the Pacific washed up a shell:
around an alabastron
of salt water for the dead,
seaweed rustled its papers, drying them out,
until it died.  Waves kept crashing
into the heart
of each shell
I held to my ear like a phone,
but they were just the waves of my blood.
And through it all
I heard him say,
how could it be nine months ago
his grandson had taken his own life,
somewhere back east?
He was fifteen.
O Pacific, what good is our grief?
Something screamed at the sandy child
who poured seawater
into a hole.
Child, you'll never empty the ocean,
Augustine said.  How can I believe?
The wet fist of a wave
dissolved in sand.
Like a saint, a seagull flapped down the beach
in search of something raw—an angel
with an empty pail?
No, a teenage boy,
hands big as a man's, held a sea slug
quaking like an aspic.  Under a rock, another
drew into its body
a creature
larger than itself.  Live, said Death,
to child and childless alike, indifferently.
I am coming.

o my angel, whom is suspended, ..
suspended between the sky and the earth....
whom always, i wish to reach you, ...
whom always, i dream that i reached your heart, ...
don`t ask any one, whom is your beloved, ..
and don`t choose him, by how he looks like, ...
ask your heart, ..
just ask your heart, ...
only your heart, whom knows the answer, ..
and know, who is your beloved, ..
and know, whom is your man, ..
from between all men in the world....
i put my name in your list, ...
as any dress in your closet, ..
and maybe that to hesitate for, to choose, ..
between your dresses, ..
and i accept that, ..
to be chosen or not, ..
but i accept that, ...
and because i love you, ..
i accept to be in that, ..
and to be as a hostage..

Delivered out of raw continual pain,
smell of darkness, groans of those others
to whom he was chained--
unchained, and led
past the sleepers,
door after door silently opening--
out!
And along a long street's
majestic emptiness under the moon:
one hand on the angel's shoulder, one
feeling the air before him,
eyes open but fixed...
And not till he saw the angel had left him,
alone and free to resume
the ecstatic, dangerous, wearisome roads of
what he had still to do,
not till then did he recognize
this was no dream. More frightening
than arrest, than being chained to his warders:
he could hear his own footsteps suddenly.
Had the angel's feet
made any sound? He could not recall.
No one had missed him, no one was in pursuit.
He himself must be
the key, now, to the next door,
the next terrors of freedom and joy.

They clamour and fight, they doubt and despair, they know no end
to their wrangling.
Let your life come amongst them like a flame of light, my
child, unflickering and pure, and delight them into silence.
They are cruel in their greed and their envy, their words are like
hidden knives thirsting for blood.
Go and stand amidst their scowling hearts, my child, and let
your gentle eyes fall upon them like the forgiving peace of the
evening over the strife of the day.
Let them see your face, my child, and thus know the meaning
of all things; let them love you and thus love each other.
Come and take your seat in the bosom of the limitless, my
child. At sunrise open and raise your heart like a blossoming
flower, and at sunset bend your head and in silence complete the
worship of the day.

There's a white angel out there
Out there somewhere
It'll blow away the darkness
Let is bright light shine
There's a white angel out there
With gold encrested wings
A white halo of leaves
They only show certain people they're their angel
There's a white angel out there
One for each of us
Be they a friend to save you
Or a true being of Heaven
There's a white angel out there
Just let them find you please
They'll show you light
They'll save you from dark
There's a white angel out there
Just let them break through thier darkness
Let them gain those wings
And you'll see them waiting
There's a white angel out there
Just you wait and see
March 2006

Any time I don't understand something
Or feel unhappy with the way things are going,
Anger steps up, 'use me; let me help'
And I used to give Anger a lot of free rein,
Till I noticed Anger wasn't all that useful
And generally tended to only make things worse.
Now I try to rely more on 'Patience'
As Patience doesn't keep clicking that counter,
Adding up every resentment of the hour.
Besides, I can look straight into Patience's face
And not have one clue what Patience is thinking of.
You know, Anger could learn something from that.

Anger, my faithful friend, never relenting, embedded in the
pit of my soul, ready to strike when fate and foe deal
their dreaded blows. Embracing you I have, all of my
life, drawing courage and strength in the face of pain.
I’ve been shunned by some, chastised by many when you
reared your ugly little head, but if not for your defense I
would have surely drowned in self defeat. In lack of
self responsibilities when inflicting their pain, my
foes have said, (Anger managment is what she needs) .
I pushed you away my friend, accepting the guilt from
others when clinging to you in times of trouble, but
as I picked my beat and bloody self up one day I
realized it was not my guilt but theirs that I took that
pushed you away.
Many have said that my friend is bad, but I say that
my friend is a gift,  so I could stand with courage and defend.
For God told of the sorrows in this life and knew
you would sustain me till the end. I thank  you
my faithful Friend.

It’s a source of revenge,
Master of destruction,
It brings separation,
Encourage discrimination,
The source of pain,
Brings slavery,
Yeah, mental slavery.
Emotion is the enemy of facts,
Feelings is the darkness of reality,
Emotions, feelings are the wrong way of decision,
Let Anger not be the source of decision making,
Focus on the truth, reality and facts.

Don't make a scene, Refrain
Angry words march through the brain
Mouth clamped shut as not to utter
Quivering body, quaking shutter
Rushing sound in the ears
Eyes blinded, wet hot tears
Furious fists, clench and flex
Out of control, mind forms the text
Pent up, overflowing, ready to implode
Rapid fire has them spent, now words reload
Body turns to walk away
Conscious of the futility to stay
The breath sucked in now released
Personal Power, tenfold increased
Anger tries to take its toll
Beaten by control

Anger irks me!
I abhor persons
who show tantrums!
Not that I don't get angry.
I too loose temper
at timid lambs
those who bend their heads
to butcher's knife,
without a fight! !

Anger is bubbling away at me.
Burning a whole in my heart.
Making me burn with rage.
I have good reason to be angry.
I only wish
I could make them pay.
Put them through
What they did to me.
Anger is destroying me.
For Im hell bent on revenge..
I would love to dish out.
My own justice.
But I cant.
Anger Buabbles away.
Like a swishing sound
Of the waves.
Like a brook babbles
Anger takes ahold.

When toxic and volatile emotions
Are causing confusion and commotion,
Feelings are hijacked, hot thoughts race,
Mind gets enveloped in a rage.
As a consequence, visibility comes down,
It’s wise to shift gears and slow down.
Switch on the wipers
And clear the fog on the mind’s mirror.
Lest you forever live to regret
And wonder how I met with an accident.
Take few deep breaths, and count to ten,
As anger clouds the perception.
Your ability to discern goes haywire
So whatever you say backfires.
First deal with your inner pollution,
To stop firing deadly ammunition.
Remove yourself from the object of your ire
Lest you shoot arrows of fire
And give in to your primitive instinct,
Do something that your mood uplifts.
When the fog finally lifts
You’ll realise, perception does shift.
Then you’ll be glad
Things didn’t get out of hand.
Anger is our worst enemy
Causes havoc in our life and body chemistry.

One time you want to run away
To go and never look back
You feel that you hate people
And you hate yourself
You didn't make any mistake
But you want to punish yourself
To broke every thing that make you happy
And you want to be in the cage of sadness forever
You think all these things when you are angry
Your brain tell you that you are wrong but your heart want to explose...
But after few time you'll forget
And you'll be stronger than you were
And finally you realize that you learnt many things and your belief in God has increased
Which give you the power to fly...to reach be on the sky
And you'll know that everywhere you go God will protect you
Just trust...

I realized that you too get angry sometimes as human beings.
But you should serve a substitute instead of ferocious Quake.
The innocents poured precious tears in their lifetime
But no gratitude shown at all.
I won't blame you as I know since my childhood
Earth is a graveyard.

Animals are being abused everyday
And they are hopeless
They have nothing to say
What will you do if you were in there place?
When you have no voice to make them stop
Because some times they fight against you with no grace
And some of them after you gave them all that love
They don’t pay back enough
Because they consider animals as there own
But they belong to god, he gave them to us
So we won’t be alone
We can stop and never go back to the abuse again
We should start treating animals with kindness and respect
We can help them to make up for the pain
And we can also set them free to where they belong
Because we can’t lock them in cages
They didn’t do us any wrong
So tomorrow will be a fresh start with humans friends
And forget what we did for so long
Together we will stay tell the end.

A newborn bull calf
Being licked by its mother
Survival Instinct

There are people I think who consider me friend,
But I don't know for sure that they're right,
I may walk like a duck, even quack like a duck,
But I doubt that that means we won't fight.
I bought animal crackers in box as a child,
But you can't purchase friendship that way,
I've found friendship is messy, can even be wild,
Ideology even holds sway.
So then how do you know if somebody's your friend?
ALL ARE BROTHERS if you honor Christ!
It's an unlikely outcome if you're slave to trend
That views friendship as way overpriced.
I think friendship means man must be Christian at heart,
God CAN'T care if he "knows" Christ or not,
Loving God and such man simply can't be apart,
If not true, then God's just tommyrot.
In this spirit let us love Republican queens,
Although Satan's grabbed them by their crotch,
For they seem to believe that end justifies means,
And take pride in each body, each notch!
Or let human race die but creation survive,
Man unworthy of Science or Grace?
Tooth and claw of the dinosaurs once again thrive,
And humanity's sin thus erase!
Long Tooth
February 23,2017

Changes his color
Often like a chamelion
To intimidate
His rivals and the people
A vile political scheme.
Copyright 2020, Rose Marie Juan-Austin, All Rights Reserved poem

They walk like a majestic, behave like gentle animals
Elephants are known as the biggest mammal on earth
Let it be cultural or any other ceremonies they continue to
play their common role in them.
Raise their trunk for trumpet
Weg their tail and ears to chase flies and squirt water
These gentle giants that tread the earth.
Always like to wallow in the mud and love to
immerse themselves in the water for long hours
They show great affection for one another and
take care of their young ones very dearly
Not only they are sensitive animals by nature
but also have a great memory
Although, they are useful to human in many ways
but also they are killed for their priceless tusks.
They are great animals in the jungle and parade like a majestic.

2)  In animal durbar aliens' teeter-tottering on dandle board in the middle sat some rats and jumping cats unsure of anything tried to jump in both ways but the result is they stayed at the same in the theatre of absurd, really buffoons! Abracadabra!  Politico-clowns wore psycho gowns in their hands, magic wands ready to offer some sops to the both dwellers of pandemonium and harmonium: Sponsoring free tickets to all galaxies with a bonus ambrosia, lifetime guarantee - arrangements meeting with aliens, robot slaves, free WiFi www connections even in hamlets,1 kg gold, to kids, some toys: cycles, cars, elephants, sickle, fans, etc. Special offers to little boys teddy bears with hands; to little girls supplying lotus flowers 24/7 are only few to name: Mania, mania, election mania election shouted modern soothsayers in hallucination.
Fisherman bought fishing net, put some bait to catch a fish sang fisher man waving his hands to his sweethearts; oh sorry they are just his voters. Holy-moly In the animal durbar, playing chess teeter-tottered aliens on the dandle board, in the middle meddled so dumping rats and jumping cats on either side but unsure of anything jumped in both ways but the result is stayed at the same place in the theatre of absurd, oh real buffoons!
Rattrap peddler, just a meddler bought a trap, added some cheese crop and dropped to trap some special rats: "on my shirt, on my sleeves, in my pockets and in my collar are my lovers, only just lotus flowers, April fool in the election school! Abracadabra!  Politico-clowns wore psycho gowns in their hands, magic wands ready to offer some sops to the both dwellers of pandemonium and harmonium: Sponsoring free tickets to all galaxies with a bonus ambrosia, lifetime guarantee - arrangements meeting with aliens, robot slaves, free WiFi www connections even in hamlets and 1 kg gold -
to kids, some toys: cycles, cars, elephants, sickle, fans, etc. Special offers to little boys teddy bears with 3 hands; to little girls supplying lotus flowers 24/7 are only few to name - sang Holly hock, holy cow, holy man, holy you and holy me and chanted modern soothsayers in hallucination: Mania, mania, election mania election!

Blizzards, wildfires, Tsunamis and hurricanes caused no trauma
Nor earthquakes & erupted volcanoes did any catostopic drama
Bam, boom, bang, humanbomb blasted in a jungle causing death
With shuddering, trembling & tearing as a misery struck
Horrible horror, terrible terror, mass violence spread, yuck!
Unleashing death, havoc, riots, & unrest in the absolute mayhem
Amphigory, focus-refocus-defocus on the animal farm: an allegory!
Mountains of debris, seas of smoke, dust & rust burst over them
The harmless animals - ducks, chicks, goats're perplexed, o man!
Running, rushing, shouting, yelling, and fainting, they began
Watching at the heap of torn bodies, they forgot to take breath
Wars, massacres, and all forms of evil activities took place
Bullies, rowdies, ruffians, and hooligans ruled without grace
Amphigory, focus-refocus-defocus on the animal farm: an allegory!
Committed crimes, passed the buck on others with an attack
Mistreating, abusing, plotting made them hard nuts to crack
Conflicts on complex matters divided animals into entangled boughs
Corruption, injustice, rottenness and bloodshed are common shows
Virtues buried down in the sea and vices rose up to the sky
Barbarism and terrorism inflicted on them, oh it's not a lie
The poor animals lost peace & morals that ruled for centuries
All are caught in chains of iron rules enforced by all countries.
Amphigory, focus-refocus-defocus on the animal farm; an allegory!
Ferocious animals ran roughshod with bioweapons in Dragon-woods
Chancing to pounce on the lesser animals of neighboring woods
With veto power: Animalia, pigs violated rules in the pigtatorship
nursing venom in their bosom, commited monstrous harms with a whip
They know how to cook goose, take booze, kick those everywhere
And when and how to cast invisible nets to catch fish with a snare.
Amphigory, focus-refocus-defocus on the animal farm: an allegory!
Two small goats were quarreling in another animal farm for toys
Some hyenas of powerful forest rushed to spot rising noise
For their howling at high pitch, bleating became unheard song mime
Bovines, bisons, hippos & rhinos joined the feast with a cruel rhyme
Sheep, cattle, cat, deer & hare with tears ran out of the farm
Mass struggles, class clashes, dreadful ruckus ruled in the same farm
Amphigory, focus-refocus-defocus on the animal farm: an allegory!
With the sudden demise of Napoleon: the pigtator, beasts cheered
Camels, zebras, dogs, monkeys, donkeys & ordinary ones reappeared
In ensuing battle for power, brutal lions emerged victorious
Shared power with wild boars, bears, chetahs & foxes atrocious
By defeating all farms, the bestial rules: animalia, are imposed
Ration's cut, spirit is crushed and to danger, beasts are exposed.
Amphigory, focus-refocus-defocus on the animal farm: an allegory!

Here goes the tale
A man went to jungle
Unzipped and started to pee
Animals came and saw with glee
And wonder! Why he cut off the tail
Though he never threw the beast and remained an animal!

Change of animal nature to human nature is needed
To aim for changing to divine nature finally sure!
Social animal to social human is what one needs to
Change first before one tries to become a divine one!
All religions preach about peace, love and divinity;
A religion may change a brute or an animal being into
A divine being, but it's not possible before one first
Turns into a human being imbibing tolerance, patience!
After one is well soaked in kindness, gentleness and
Love only, one can be a perfect human being before
One transforms into a divine being by mediation and
Mysticism of divinity in communion with Nature ever!
Sans becoming a human being, how can one ever become
A divine being even by religion sans first by human
Culture that prunes one to have best thoughts, best
Speech and best deeds as way of world life forever.?

A baby lay forgotten
In the womb of the dead mother;
Still breathing the last few breathes
The remaining of the mother’s last air.
The ravaging war has killed the breast to feed
Leaving the unfulfilled infant trapped alone
Unless someone do something to support the life
The baby’s scream will never be heard across the stream.
Amidst of the rattling guns and battling man
There lies the woman with her hand holding the tummy
Lying still on the ground colored red
The last wish was only to protect the life within the womb.
Until a medic see the predicament
The baby's last breath was almost unheard within
Quickly the life saving team rushed
Knowing they have nothing but only the grace of god.
Each said their prayers while cesarean performed
Hoping desperately to hear a little voice loud and clear
To add music to the ransacked villages made unto a battlefield
Due to atrocities blinded the humanity.
Suddenly, in the middle of the rattling machine guns
And blaring sounds of grenade explosions
The surgeon proudly lifted the newborn high
Poking his fingers gently to clear the throat
So, the baby will one day stand tall to speak with right choice.
Thank god, the whole team prayed
A little late, we wouldn’t have seen another life
Imbued with hope in the middle of the battle
The medical van paved through the war
Bringing news to others around
That today in the battlefield
A baby was born to a dead mother
To tell the world, that life is still far from death.

He's fast asleep.  See how, O Wife,
Night's finger on the lip of life
Bids whist the tongue, so prattle-rife,
Of busy Baby Charley.
One arm stretched backward round his head,
Five little toes from out the bed
Just showing, like five rosebuds red,
-- So slumbers Baby Charley.
Heaven-lights, I know, are beaming through
Those lucent eyelids, veined with blue,
That shut away from mortal view
Large eyes of Baby Charley.
O sweet Sleep-Angel, throned now
On the round glory of his brow,
Wave thy wing and waft my vow
Breathed over Baby Charley.
I vow that my heart, when death is nigh,
Shall never shiver with a sigh
For act of hand or tongue or eye
That wronged my Baby Charley!

O precious newborn in our home
Gift of God's great love divine.
May caring angels smile on you
Baby mine, O Baby mine.
Then as you walk the path of life,
May God's grace on your path shine
and keep you ever in his will
Baby mine, O, Baby mine.

From torrid heat to frigid cold
I've rovered land and sea;
And now, with halting heart I hold
My grandchild on my knee:
Yet while I've eighty years all told,
Of moons she has but three.
She sleeps, that fragile miniature
Of future maidenhood;
She will be wonderful, I'm sure,
As over her I brood;
She is so innocent, so pure,
I know she will be good.
My way I've won from woe to weal,
And hard has been the fight;
Yet in my ingle-nook I feel
A wondrous peace to-night;
And over me serenely steal
Warm waves of love and light.
"What sloppy stuff!" I hear you say.
"Give us a lusty song."
Alas! I'm bent and gnarled and grey,--
My life may not be long:
Yet let its crown of glory be
This child upon me knee.

Fate is a baby young eyes
In to a morning daybreak
How in the truth you rise
Always yourself no fake
Give it your trying worth
Everything you have got
You came of this earth
What you are - what you are not
The days are ahead for free
Bring them to destiny
Be what you want to be
Most of it's had for free
Occupy dreams come true
Everywhere you go
You will be always you
Walking it to and fro
Something you can live
Is always worth its while
What you know to give
Each of your footstep's trial
Nothing is nothing still
So please give of your love
Others may find their hill
The dales have them plenty of
*Sorry about the Blue versus Young, - the word is Young, not Blue; and the fault is ours. The word got somehow scrambled through the cell phone…
The Crew

You flew in softly and tiptoed in my life
My parched soul got a reprieve
My heart is now your permanent home
We shall play with elves and gnomes
The moon will sing with me a lullaby
The stars do a slow tambourine dance in the sky
My blurred vision suddenly got a divine sight
You are the soul of my soul, my eternal light
There is a river gushing inside me
You are the fountain, you are my chi
I hear nothing but your sweet voice
You shimmer, you glisten and I rejoice
You, my darling are my inner sun
You are the song that I will hum
Today, tomorrow and forever
Your inner light I shall devour
You are the ink on my heart that will never blur
The calligraphy etched deep inside
You have fulfilled a deep void
You are my baby, my love, my joy, my pride

It looked like a storm was brewing
Dark clouds were ominous, it’s true
Such stillness was in the air as well
And I think you would feel it too
Poor little Mollie was very scared
Not sure what would happen to her
Mom was standing near, of course
Mollie pressed closely against her fur
The sky grew darker by the minute
Only a little purple and pink could be seen
The night was changing to a nightmare
Looking so angry and utterly mean
Thank goodness Mollie had Mom
And as time went on through the night
Mollie had a little bit to eat
It was a pleasant and wonderful sight
The sky continued to build its storm
But there wasn’t a thing could be done
Of course tomorrow is another day
And I’m sure it’ll bring out the sun!

Ode to baby
In some small ways when you think about it
How much happiness he will give you when he arrives
But as we look around everything will change when he will be here
The baby will need my attention than
He will need me there to take care of him
And I will give him all my love
I will than hear just a whisper of what the heart of this baby needs to say
It will make a difference in some small ways
In that baby’s heart will lay the key
That unlocks his destiny
You will be a miracle baby
You will sleep tight my precious one
In that crib
Beautiful Baby
Every day
Will get better
Lullabies I will sing to you
And you will sleep tight every night
And when you come we will share that beautiful world together
That baby will live with the one he loves
And I hope one day when that baby is grown up we can be all proud of him
Of course we will be proud of his parents also
And I will be proud to be your uncle always
This baby’s spirit will always be alive
For now I just have to wait for you first to come to my world
And than to be a part of my life
Baby you are in my prayers
Every day
I believe that this baby will be my future
I will teach him well
I will teach him what is right and what is wrong
I will belong to you once you will arrive

Little baby firefly
when your night is through
does your mommy tuck you in
and tell you she loves you?
Does she kiss your forehead
and say in morning's light...
'Day-day little sleepyhead,
close your eyes, put out your light.'

The two of us alone on that stony Cheathrú Rua beach
On a July evening that almost seemed like my reason for being.
It was our last day together and the sun was burning strong.
The coral tucked snugly in under tranquil lapping waves
Like a well fitted carpet – well, at least in appearance –
For its prickle could ignite fires on tender bare feet.
But this day grit between my toes was of little pertinence
As we talked of life and our paths here, sharing tales,
Sharing moments that made us laugh until we cried.
And then you paused, a serious stare. An instant frozen forever:
Your golden hair blew gently in the passing sea breeze,
You looked at me intensely and said simply, “I’ll miss you.”
I could not speak, my throat was blocked.
I spoke only with my eyes when ours locked.
Our faces were ones that only a coral Connemara beach could remember.
The sea it glistened.

Why not long walks on the beach
Whispering sweet nothings to each
Walking bare foot in the sand
Walking together hand in hand
Watching the waves come crashing in
Feeling the dampness on my skin
Feeling the gentle breeze on my face
One of god's beauties, what a wonderful place
Looking up towards all the stars
On this magic night, this will be all ours
Love the ocean once in a while
Forgetting your problems and making you smile!

Silver white sands spill from my hands
As they flow the grip tightening shows
They cannot be contained, they cant be owned
Each individual, yet collectively as one
Stand and be judged under the conceited sun
Cast no shadow on the beach of doubt
There are always answers all about
Try as you may some will only dismay
There is no easy in this world so queasy
Let not pride wash with the foregoing tide
While you dwell.. find the hidden prize shell
A memory, a keepsake for not to forsake
The past is spent, the future is in the ever-present
Hesitate and all is lost, make haste at all cost
The world for the living awaits no one
When all is said and done…..
(C)  Damien D

The sea is calm to-night.
The tide is full, the moon lies fair
Upon the straits; - on the French coast the light
Gleams and is gone; the cliffs of England stand,
Glimmering and vast, out in the tranquil bay.
Come to the window, sweet is the night-air!
Only, from the long line of spray
Where the sea meets the moon-blanch'd land,
Listen! you hear the grating roar
Of pebbles which the waves draw back, and fling,
At their return, up the high strand,
Begin, and cease, and then again begin,
With tremulous cadence slow, and bring
The eternal note of sadness in.
Sophocles long ago
Heard it on the {AE}gean, and it brought
Into his mind the turbid ebb and flow
Of human misery; we
Find also in the sound a thought,
Hearing it by this distant northern sea.
The Sea of Faith
Was once, too, at the full, and round earth's shore
Lay like the folds of a bright girdle furl'd.
But now I only hear
Its melancholy, long, withdrawing roar,
Retreating, to the breath
Of the night-wind, down the vast edges drear
And naked shingles of the world.
Ah, love, let us be true
To one another! for the world, which seems
To lie before us like a land of dreams,
So various, so beautiful, so new,
Hath really neither joy, nor love, nor light,
Nor certitude, nor peace, nor help for pain;
And we are here as on a darkling plain
Swept with confused alarms of struggle and flight,
Where ignorant armies clash by night.

somewhere in my darkness there was a spark
today it ignited rare thoughts of you
only seconds before....
I had stuck the cold barrel of a gun
directly beneath the gap in my front teeth
and into the far reaches of my
ninety proof alcohol drenched mouth
squeezing the cheeks of my ass tighter
so as not to blow my brains onto the floor
I steadied my trembling hand
wishing instead
to paint the walls and ceiling
with all that remained of my love
___a masterpiece for martyrs
my humanity
I had drained with my last piss
death was inviting me over
for one last drink of my own self pity
I was ready to accept its invitation
when somewhere in my darkness
there was that tiny little spark
which ignited rare thoughts of you
.....it was then I knew I didn't want to die
without you Bitch

Along side the sea shore I walk,
Alone, none by my side to talk,
Every evening in the Juhu Beach,
Very near my house to reach.
On the sands, Policemen in the jeep,
A vigil, up and down, they keep,
For the safety, in their daily rounds,
Of the visiting tourists.
The hot spicy fast food vendors,
Sell the food to their customers,
With pungent smell of different sorts,
From their glass case moving carts,
Some kids build a sand castle.
Some dig deep pits with a tussle.
Some play cricket, the players
Unmindful of the beach walkers.
Some, for a swim, jump into the sea,
Some stand, with fear, near the sea,
Some pick up fresh shells in the water
And yet others throw rubbish into the water.
Young couples hug each other,
As they move, step by step, closer,
Into their own imaginary paradise,
Not caring for other's prejudice.
Fishermen with their pricy catch,
Looking for a fair price to fetch,
Dock their boats on the pitch,
Marked reserved for them each.
A group of retired old men,
Busy on subjects in common,
Talk about their days bygone,
And pristine glories one by one.
I, for one, go on my own way,
On the wet side of the bay,
Keeping my view on the seaside,
And the landside panorama aside.
The red ball of the setting sun,
Descending slowly into the horizon,
Appear to drown itself in the sea, Arabian,
Before the eyes of men and women.
For a moment my imagination,
Runs riot now and then,
To the sea what'll happen
When this scene becomes a real one?
Then will there be a sea
For any one of us to see?
Or will the earth survive
For any one of us to live?
What is seen goes unbelievable!
What is unseen is believable!
The ways of nature are quite funny
And appear to be deceptive really!

At dawn, bare footed, viewing as far as eyes can reach,
the water's edge advances and recedes along the beach.
Before me I see a carpet of half-buried shells of sea-creatures,
tide washed and rippled in sodden sand along the beach.
I move, exploring, sodden sand oozing between my toes,
beyond me the wavelets breaking on the sand along the beach.
Behind me, my wandering trail is blurred and indistinct,
as the water's edge advances and recedes along the beach.
At mid-day, on the soft dry sand behind the water's edge,
undressed worshippers lie in the sun that beats down along the beach.
At night, the moon's reflection at the water's edge
resembles sea serpents playing in the wavelets along the beach.

The summer we spent at the beach
left us far from where we started.
You were content to spend your days,
nights, in quiet somnambulism.
Spending endless days without
waking or caring or seeing the
turbulent waves slowly pulling
the sand from under our feet.
While I spent my days walking the dunes
looking for driftwood and shells,
sweet pea flowers and scrub pines.
The days were cool and the seagulls
called their warning.
They should have been whispering
my name, that and goodbye.

April Cannon Beach
the sea lions too taken up
by the sights
April Cannon Beach
we join the sea lions
in their songs of praise
Oregan Coast March
a fountain of
whales
Every spring, gray whales make their way north from the breeding grounds of Baja California to the summer playground of the Bering Sea. Traveling about five miles per hour, it takes the whale some three weeks to make the journey, passing the scenic Oregon coast in late March and April. Stop in Cannon Beach to see Haystack Rock, the artsy little hamlet of Yachats, backed by verdant Cape Perpetua, and Sea Lion Caves, where you take an elevator down 200 feet to view hundreds of sea lions squawking on the rocks.

The stars glisten……,
Around the moon…..,
Like the eyes of angels…,
That hail the soon….,
Coming birth….,
Of the Savior….,
Who will rid the world….,
Of all its sin…..,
Yes, Jesus Christ will be born….,
On A Beautiful Night Of Christmas Silence….,
Hail the Lord, Jesus Christ….,
On A Beautiful Night Of Christmas Silence….! ! !
.......................................Tr ade Martin,  2011.

A shimmering of your hair
As I glance in awe
A quiver of your lips
As I swallow in anticipation
A flashing of your eyes
As I stand near not far
A movement of your hips
As I watch you walk
A gesture of your hand
As I lower my lips
A laughter in the air
As I make another quip
A sigh from deep within
As I tell you my intent
A gasp from tender breast
As I look so deep within
A tremble in your legs
As I make you remember
And you have absolutely no doubt
Beauty is in the making
Through each breath
Each of us are together taking.

We loved eachother
Our hearts were warm
You loved me
I loved you back
But the sands of time
Made our love lack
I needed you
And hated you also
We screamed, we yelled
Our mutual hatred swelled
The day finally came
When you handed back your token
The emotion inside had finally woken
My spirit was broken
I became a shell
Wishing you would burn in hell
I wanted so bad to scream and yell
My mind has been set up after all
I swallow my demon, and then I fall

The grass is green
I can be seen,
I am so mean
That's why I'm mean
Look at me
I'm full of glee,
I love the sea
like a buzzy bee
I love you too
That's what I do,
I go to the zoo
To see you!

Beauty is not a superficial form
Each has their own in essential nature
And in the actions they perform
Until the dissolution of their life
To leave beauty’s impressions in our hearts
Yesterdays beauty never leaves or departs.
Beauty is all around
Each and every place it may be found
As you look with open eyes
Upon the forms that nature makes
Then man seeks to imitate
Yearning to match that beauty all around.
Beauty if you cannot find
Beauty must be in mind
Beauty is in purity
Beauty of simplicity
Beauty runs right through and through
Beauty in me, and them, and you.
Beauty, beauteous, beautiful
Beauty in heaven
Beauty in fire
Beauty in earth
And finally beauty in a simple verse.

Great, wide, beautiful, wonderful World,
With the wonderful water round you curled,
And the wonderful grass upon your breast--
World, you are beautifully drest.
The wonderful air is over me,
And the wonderful wind is shaking the tree,
It walks on the water, and whirls the mills,
And talks to itself on the tops of the hills.
You friendly Earth! how far do you go,
With the wheat-fields that nod and the rivers that flow,
With cities and gardens, and cliffs, and isles,
And people upon you for thousands of miles?
Ah, you are so great, and I am so small,
I tremble to think of you, World, at all;
And yet, when I said my prayers to-day,
A whisper inside me seemed to say,
"You are more than the Earth, though you are such a dot:
You can love and think, and the Earth cannot!"

In a world of barbies, implants and a size 26 waist
heartache's no more prevalent than in her with a beautiful face.
No more wanted for her looks than her heart
her persona fades as soon as puberty starts.
She screams celebrity in a small town manner
In a world that passes judgement by how much you achieve
she must use her 'talents' as the world perceives.
As years go by her beauty's but a nuisance
to the person inside made up of more substance.
She SCREAMS celebrity in a small town manner
There's no plastic surgery to alter your soul
no place for outward beauty in the world of good will.
To wed true love's but a leap of trust
so she squanders her beauty as a matter of must.
For small town love in true Hollywood fashion.

They drift down the hall together;
He smiles in her lifted eyes.
Like waves of that mighty river
The strains of the ‘Danube’ rise.
They float on its rhythmic measure,
Like leaves on a summer stream;
And here, in this scene of pleasure,
I bury my sweet dead dream.
Through the cloud of her dusky tresses,
Like a star, shines out her face;
And the form of his strong arm presses
Is sylph-like in its grace.
As a leaf on the bounding river
Is lost in the seething sea,
I know that for ever and ever
My dream is lost to me.
And still the viols are playing
That grand old wordless rhyme;
And still those two are swaying
In perfect tune and time.
If the great bassoons that mutter,
If the clarinets that blow,
Were given the chance to utter
The secret things they know.
Would the lists of the slain who slumber
On the Danube’s battle-plains
The unknown hosts outnumber
Who die ‘neath the ‘Danube’s’ strains?
Those fall where the cannons rattle,
‘Mid the rain of shot and shell;
But these, in a fiercer battle,
Find death in the music’s swell.
With the river’s roar of passion
Is blended the dying groan;
But here, in the halls of fashion,
Hearts break, and make no moan.
And the music, swelling and sweeping,
Like the river, knows it all;
But none are counting or keeping
The lists of those who fall.

Two genii are there, from thy birth through weary life to guide thee;
Ah, happy when, united both, they stand to aid beside thee?
With gleesome play to cheer the path, the one comes blithe with beauty,
And lighter, leaning on her arm, the destiny and duty.
With jest and sweet discourse she goes unto the rock sublime,
Where halts above the eternal sea the shuddering child of time.
The other here, resolved and mute and solemn, claspeth thee,
And bears thee in her giant arms across the fearful sea.
Never admit the one alone!--Give not the gentle guide
Thy honor--nor unto the stern thy happiness confide!

The perfect American Beauty Rose,
is it diminished
by the slag heaps on Rt. 11, just west
of Scranton, or by the dark cloud
that seems to have settled an inch or so
beneath the surface of Lake Naomi,
or even the swell of soot that hangs
like a troubling thought over the town
on the other side of the river?
Is the rose there any less beautiful?
Or this woman here; right now
she is standing in the impatient way
women have, a hip thrust out,
a shoulder let low?  She is casual
this Sunday morning, in jeans
and a simple top, and she stands
at the top of the hill holding a cigarette
and a leash, waiting for her dog to return.
You'll have to take my word for this:
she is as lovely as any rose
you'll ever find on those long walks you take
into the mountains, and nothing about her
is diminished by the bombs that are falling
this very moment on Afghanistan, the lies
packed tight and neat into cartons
and stacked with the rest in basements,
warehouses and storage rentals
throughout Washington, the three point shot
dropping like a rock short of the basket
in the final seconds of an important moment
in someone's life.  In fact, it is just the opposite:
the grays around us fade—not reduced, no,
nor chased away—but lost to the flush
beauty of the red rose, of the women,
in a moment appreciated.
Anonymous submission.

there is something about the ocean
that brings out the earth-mother in me
it is a place i love to go to write or
to ponder life's mysteries
being out in the ocean with
the waves spraying over me
feels something of a baptism
a cleansing of my soul's debris
the beach has a magnificent beauty
that never ceases to amaze me
and makes me feel one with the earth
in rhythmn and harmony
i realize as i look out to sea
how very small i really must be
in the overall scheme of things
i love the sea for it brings
out the spirituality in me
the feeling of being totally free
like seagulls overhead and
the sand underneath my feet
or the engulfing sun warming me
to get down to the nitty-gritty
the sea is a poet's paradise to me

Age is just a state of mind
And this we know for sure -
It isn't like some rare disease
For which there is no cure;
It creeps upon us silently
To catch us unaware
And while we worry about getting old
We're already getting there;
But there's a consolation
To this thing called getting old -
Our hair will turn to silver
And our teeth will turn to gold;
Age is just a state of mind
A case of brain and brawn -
Before we realize the body is shot
The mind will already be gone!

There was in her face,
in the contours of her
beauty lines
a past smoothing out
which I could see
would match
her older photographs.
The older her
only hinted at
that prior
state.
But I took my time
to look at her
now past 55
to see
in that older landscape
what my eye
sought
in her face at twenty and five..
Could not the face
before me
be seen
on its own terms?
Where is that beauty
line between
beauty and non-beauty?
Is it the tightness of the skin
the twinkle in the eye,
healthy look or
non-healthy look?
What's true is that
my own Western
eye
can only see age;
not nobility;
only TV screen beauty-
not maturity.
But you know
there are a myriad of exceptions;
children don't see age
the same way we do
nor does most of the world.
What is going on here?

For beauty I am not a star,
There are others more perfect by far,
But my face I don't mind it,
For I am behind it,
It is those in front that I jar.

It is not Beauty I demand,
A crystal brow, the moon's despair,
Nor the snow's daughter, a white hand,
Nor mermaid's yellow pride of hair.
Tell me not of your starry eyes,
Your lips that seem on roses fed,
Your breasts where Cupid trembling lies,
Nor sleeps for kissing of his bed.
A bloomy pair of vermeil cheeks,
Like Hebe's in her ruddiest hours,
A breath that softer music speaks
Than summer winds a-wooing flowers.
These are but gauds; nay, what are lips?
Coral beneath the ocean-stream,
Whose brink when your adventurer sips
Full oft he perisheth on them.
And what are cheeks but ensigns oft
That wave hot youth to fields of blood?
Did Helen's breast though ne'er so soft,
Do Greece or Ilium any good?
Eyes can with baleful ardor burn,
Poison can breath that erst perfumed,
There's many a white hand holds an urn
With lovers' hearts to dust consumed.
For crystal brows--there's naught within,
They are but empty cells for pride;
He who the Syren's hair would win
Is mostly strangled in the tide.
Give me, instead of beauty's bust,
A tender heart, a loyal mind,
Which with temptation I could trust,
Yet never linked with error find.
One in whose gentle bosom I
Could pour my secret heart of woes.
Like the care-burdened honey-fly
That hides his murmurs in the rose.
My earthly comforter! whose love
So indefeasible might be,
That when my spirit won above
Hers could not stay for sympathy.

Cold winds can never freeze, nor thunder sour
The cup of cheer that Beauty draws for me
Out of those Azure heavens and this green earth --
I drink and drink, and thirst the more I see.
To see the dewdrops thrill the blades of grass,
Makes my whole body shake; for here's my choice
Of either sun or shade, and both are green --
A Chaffinch laughs in his melodious voice.
The banks are stormed by Speedwell, that blue flower
So like a little heaven with one star out;
I see an amber lake of buttercups,
And Hawthorn foams the hedges round about.
The old Oak tree looks now so green and young,
That even swallows perch awhile and sing:
This is that time of year, so sweet and warm,
When bats wait not for stars ere they take wing.
As long as I love Beauty I am young,
Am young or old as I love more or less;
When Beauty is not heeded or seems stale,
My life's a cheat, let Death end my distress.

It's early autumn
The Fort Worth International Airport
Waiting with her every beauty
In a cowboy country, where
The vast lone star state stands
Around there, somewhere you smiling,
My beloved!
The beauty hidden in a beauty

HE that loves a rosy cheek,
Or a coral lip admires,
Or from star-like eyes doth seek
Fuel to maintain his fires:
As old Time makes these decay,
So his flames must waste away.
But a smooth and steadfast mind,
Gentle thoughts and calm desires,
Hearts with equal love combined,
Kindle never-dying fires.
Where these are not, I despise
Lovely cheeks or lips or eyes.

Believe in Angels
even if their wings are black
believe in the Devil
even if over his horns
you see a burning halo
Believe in Love that’s blind
and equally blind Hatred
Believe in words sneered by time
believe in Fear
Believe with your eyes and longing palms
pictures filled with colours and magical
Silence
Believe in touch, in music and in voice,
And in Quietness
Believe in thousands of everyday matters
One day just believe
In me

Just as the river
flows to the sea
All things will come easy
if they are meant to be
All you have to do is just believe
it does not matter what anyone say
No one's going to rain
on your parade
Some may believe that life has to be hard
but, their belief you can disregard
you don't have to swim up stream
that is how you kill a dream
All you have to do is let it flow
Just believe and let it go
Your dreams child will grow
Just believe in what you know

Do not believe, my dearest, when I say
That I no longer love you.
When the tide ebbs do not believe the sea -
It will return anew.
Already I long for you, and passion fills me,
I yield my freedom thus to you once more.
Already the waves return with shouts and glee
To fill again that same belovèd shore.

Im so stupid to believe
That you actually liked me
Im so stupid to believe
That you actually wanted to be with me
Im so stupid to believe
All those words you said to me
Im so stupid to believe
That we'd last forever
Im so stupid to believe
That you still had feelings for me
Im so stupid to believe
That you'd actually take me back
And most of all
Im so stupid to believe
That i would never care enough
to be heartbroken again
But here i am
Writing this poem
You never liked me
You never wanted to be with me
We'd never last forever
You'd never take me back
And i'll always be heartbroken!

I never believed in magic...
until u came into my life;
then all have been magical in my eyes.
I never believed that dreams come true;
till u made them real for me..
then all I see with you is just reality.
I never believed that love could move mountains...
till u moved one for me;
and then i knew that love could set me free.
And i never believed that one could die of a broken heart.
I believe it now- when you left me...
when you left me helplessly.
: -(

I believe I shall succeed
I believe I shall be an inspiration
I believe my troubles are temporary
I believe I shall be rich
I believe I shall swell wide
I believe I shall take on the world
I believe I shall speak of wealth
I believe I shall carry sufferers along
I believe I shall show how I made it from nothing
I believe in God
I believe that he is taking me somewhere
I believe that the darkness of today gives way
I believe, I believe, I believe.

Again my car is back to the mechanic,
To see what is wrong once more,
Will he rip me off and begin to laugh?
As I’m making my way out the door?
The teacher who's handling thirty students,
Robert’s still failing and unlikely to pass,
This time will she listen to God's word?
And do her part tutoring him after class?
If you found an Indian head nickel,
Laying on God's beautiful green earth,
Judging by your skin at a coin collector’s,
Would you still receive what's it's worth?
More often than not in our lifetime,
A fair shake we will not receive,
It really doesn’t matter what the reason,
Only that someone is going to deceive.
The adulteress was brought to Jesus,
Caught in the act she had to be stoned,
Let him among you is without sin do it,
In the end she was left standing alone.
We can’t be caught up with how others treat,
Be sure the road’s straight in placing your feet,
Let misguided feelings constantly linger on,
You’ll become the one who is in the wrong.
While we were warming up in rehearsal,
A half hour before the radio broadcast,
Mrs. Lowe criticizes our choir on a song,
They had just sung it way too fast.
Saying, we're not going to do this song,
Sounds like you're singing out of a trunk,
With a stern look in her eye Debbie say’s,
'I Don't Believe In Giving God Junk'.
What’s wrong with you people today choir?
You don’t drink so you cannot be drunk,
That song sounded so bad if it was a smell,
I would have to say you are a Skunk.
Shake off whatever is stuck in your mind,
Just kick it in the butt and leave it behind,
We’re singing in praise to our Lord & Savior,
I will not stand for this kind of behavior.
Sharpen up those voices and clear your throat,
I refuse to be held by you as a scapegoat,
Pay close attention because I want all to know,
Don’t ever bring that jack near Debbie Lowe.
w/Jeff Ricky Cheeks

In  our todays  yesterday looms large
The present isn’t the past;
In other words, the past is still omnipresent
Steering sometimes unskillfully like a barge
Sometimes disaster looms
Unannounced, uncalled for;
A wreck that lies on a shore.
The saddest of songs and the most ancient of wrongs
Can bring on the tears;
We are all equal before our fears.
Today has the faint tinge of bitterness
Tomorrow will come, with the steepest of slopes
To climb, to pause, to think
That you can stumble on the brink:
Just believe that in life, something is taken
Something is given
All is forgiven: tomorrow will come
That the gift of words that you have
Will remain articulate: you will inspire
Like the tallest of spires
Your words will remain in many hearts
Just believe, you are not forgotten
Not by man or deity or life begotten
Words of consequence and comfort
And love and life will come back again.

What do you believe in, when you wake up to the dawn?
What do you believe in, when you hear a birds gift of song?
What do you hope for, when all hope is lost?
What do you believe in, and what now was the cost?
What do you dream of, when the world tells you, 'you've failed? '
What treasures do you search for, if only to fill some empty pails?
What will you leave for time, but mans garbage and endtrails?
What should one seek after, when all else is gone?
What did God show man in Proverbs,
and from the nails placed into His palms?
What was the meaning of the words, this Man of God did speak?
What were the Commandments for, if man refuses them to keep?
What will the end be, for it will come in the twinkling of an eye?
When will the world hear of God, in the 'Sweet by and by? '

(Born on 12-1-1863)
The Land of Bengal is famous
For all kinds of noble causes,
Affecting social, political, religious,
Arts, cultural and trade interests.
In all these fields, there arose
Great many reformers, leaders,
Artists, poets, entrepreneurs,
As the top most sons of its soils.
As the heart of Indian Nation,
It rose up to all the occasions,
With its mighty contributions,
In the nation building functions.
Its abundant natural resources,
The perennial flow of rivers,
The deep sea coastal borders,
They added to its rich treasures.
As God’s gift, this mother soil
Gave birth to a great soul,
Narendranath Datta by name,
Later Vivekananda, he became.
In the year eighteen sixty three,
On the twelfth day of January,
He was born at Calcutta,
Now known as Kolkata.
Bhuvaneswari Devi, his mother,
Viswanath Datta, his father,
Both were proud of this son
For his nature more divine.
Lord Siva of Varanasi came,
Once in his mother’s dream,
Granting her wishful boon,
“I’ll be your son soon.”
True to her dream, her son
Proved himself more divine
In his every word and action,
That enhanced his reputation.

I'm a disgrace to the life
I lived as a girl—
she would be ashamed
to have me in the world.
But there's no turning back;
it's time to pay the price
for selfish pride
and evil vice.
Or pack up my things
and leave this great earth—
would you put in place
a rose in birth.
Cause thorns I've got
it's the petals I lack;
beauty should unfold:
this is no unknown fact.
With this request I must be going—
please all take care,
boys and girls
handsome and fair.

O my faithful Friend!
O early chosen, ever found the same,
And trusted and beloved! once more the verse
Long destin'd, always obvious to thine ear,
Attend indulgent.

As women are full with their
unborn children, so it is that
I am filled with my unborn words.
As a mother who loves her child
that is yet to be seen, so to, do I
yearn for words which are unborn
and lie in darkness.
I say to myself, 'come to the light,
come forth from me, that I might
see you...so that I might see my
child that is born of thought.
©Joe Fazio

Gautama Buddha was the founder of Buddhism Religion.  He was born in 560 BC and died at the age of 80 in 480 BC.  His life story is known to the world as a popular reformer in the spiritual world. His life story goes:
GAUTAMA BUDDHA
Before the Christian era,
In the 6th century, in India,
The religion was forgotten.
To winds, it was thrown.
It was a period of chaos,
None cared for the Vedas,
When the priests dictated,
And on religion, they traded.
In many unscrupulous ways,
They all amassed riches.
In exploiting their followers,
They were totally irreligious.
They performed those rituals,
Which were so meaningless,
Like killing dumb animals,
As part of cruel sacrifices.
Righteousness was nowhere.
Degeneration was everywhere.
In this irreligious background,
The priest-craft well flourished.
When the virtue subsides
And the vice prevails,
Himself, God descends,
Or messengers, He sends.
To set right this disorder,
There came a reformer,
As Godsend messenger
To spread love everywhere.
For this divine reason,
Although out of season,
To indicate his arrival sign,
There fell a gentle rain.
The flowers bloomed well,
Spreading delicious smell,
That filled the air around,
As one more sign, it was found.
In this holy atmosphere,
Amidst joy everywhere,
Gautama Buddha was born,
As a Savior from the heaven.

I
This morning I thought how easy
it must have been for you
to have copied your genetic code
in the form of flesh, dated randomly
on that bleak day in December
when the light had the dull luster
of pewter and the blinds had to be drawn.
The day ended my tenancy
in the womb which you otherwise
ripped out of your daily planner,
and being the unwanted, the mistake,
had given up in offering
like the body and blood of Christ.
Every day I struggled
to carry the weight of a lesson,
a refugee of abandonment, reading
through the pages of Catechism books
just before the Crucifixion,
practicing forgiveness.
Now, I must live with the side effects
of an uncommon childhood
like an addiction: a returned identity card,
the genetic code lost in the blood of the unborn―
those blueprints of family history
that build the strong bones of a monument,
revised by the thin scrawl of your signature
on a line that forever divides.
II
If to gaze into that mirror
as though the glass is convex―
if we could first look inward,
then outward―
if we could study profile like the face
of a moon in each of its phases―
would we find our identity?
How much of you would I see
at each angle― full, half, quartered―
that I would not have seen
in the mirror handed me
had its glass not been convex?
What do I know of you
in my arched brow?
In the discharged turmoil
of my eye?  In a single gesture?
What do I know
in learning to give up, give back, give away,
that I would not have known
had I been of the same will?
III
I cannot find you
down those stairways
that lead into the deepest catacombs
of family history, buried treasure,
a chest sealed years ago
in the shadow of your footprints;
in the dust of light beams
through the windows in the hall of records.
Nor can I see you in the genetic code
that cannot be deciphered―
those diseases that will torment the blood,
and in the pain that encapsules
our time-released lives―
although
that is where I will find you.

Climbing a path which leads back never more
We heard behind his footsteps and his cheer;
Now, face to face, we greet him standing here
Upon the lonely summit of Fourscore
Welcome to us, o'er whom the lengthened day
Is closing and the shadows colder grow,
His genial presence, like an afterglow,
Following the one just vanishing away.
Long be it ere the table shall be set
For the last breakfast of the Autocrat,
And love repeat with smiles and tears thereat
His own sweet songs that time shall not forget.
Waiting with us the call to come up higher,
Life is not less, the heavens are only higher!

The words
come to me
demanding to be
written
& are bitterly
disappointed
to find that I am
me
not
you.
Somehow, they had managed to
turn up in the wrong head
mistaking me for you
because I was thinking
so much
of you.
Too late now
they come to realise
their mistake.
Reluctantly they
agree to stay & be
this
poem.
I can see they are not
impressed.
Missing Bulgaria & ending up
in England in an Irish head
is bad but badder still
geting the sex wrong
& being this guy!
A word breaks down
begins to cry.
'She's got what the Arabs call tarab! '
one word is heard to remark.
Yes...yes it's that  intoxication of the senses
beyond all reason! '
another word elucidates....almost hallucinates.
'Hey shit for brains! '
a bunch of words cruelly calls
'Onelia would have written us
better than this! '
Some words try to hide
in the space between the lines.
Some words hide
in the surrounding empty space
refusing to come out
or even talk about
...'it! '
Some words live lives
of quiet desperation
silently
erasing themselves.
Some words hijack
this page
& turning it into
a paper aeroplane
demand to be
taken to Sofia.
They are already incensed
to have missed your birthday.
So, if by your dreaming head
a paper aeroplane appears
full of frustrated distraught
words
take them
they are yours.
You the better poet
than I could ever be.
You... the great you
me...merely me.

Bright glittering lights are gleaming in yonder mansion proud,
And within its walls are gathered a gemmed and jewelled crowd;
Robes of airy gauze and satin, diamonds and rubies bright,
Rich festoons of glowing flowers—truly ’tis a wondrous sight.
Time and care and gold were lavished that it might be, every way,
The success of all the season—brilliant fashionable gay.
’Tis the birth night of the heiress of this splendor wealth and state,
The sole child, the only darling, of a household of the great.
Now the strains of the fast galop on the perfumed air arise,
Rosy cheeks are turning carmine, brighter grow the brightest eyes,
As the whirling crowds of dancers pass again and yet again—
Girls coquettish, silly women, vapid and unmeaning men.
’Tis a scene to fill the thoughtful with a silent, vague dismay,
And from its unholy magic we are fain to steal away;
Out here in the quiet moonlight we may pause awhile and rest,
Whilst the solemn stars of heaven bring back peace unto our breast.
Soft! who is the fair young being—she who nightly joins us now,
In a robe of airy lightness, and with jewels on her brow,
Fair as the most fair ideal dreaming poet e’er inspired,
Or as lover, charmed by beauty, ever worshipped and admired.
Strange! what means that look so weary, that long-drawn and painful sigh;
And that gaze, intense and yearning, fixed upon the starlit sky?
Is she not the child of fortune, fortune’s pet and darling bright,
Yes, the beauteous, courted heiress—heroine of the gala night?
From the crowds of ardent lovers, who would beset her way,
Sickened by their whispered flatt’ries, she has coldly turned away;
And, as now the thrilling music falls upon her wearied ear,
She cannot resist a shudder, caused by mingled hate and fear.
“This is pleasure, then,” she murmurs; this is what the world calls bliss,
Oh! for objects less unworthy, for a holier life than this!
I am weary of its folly. O, Great Father, grant my boon:
“From its sinful, silken meshes, I pray Thee, free me soon!”
Did He answer? Now another year has passed with rapid flight,—
O’er the crowded, silent city broods the spirit of the night;
In the sick wards of the convent, fever-stricken, gasping, lies,
One with death’s damps on his brow, and its film o’er his eyes.
There beside him kneels a Sister, in coarse dusky robe and veil,
And with gentle care she moistens those poor lips so dry and pale;
Now she whispers hope and courage, now she tells of Heaven bright—
Thus it is the gentle heiress celebrates her next birth-night.
Not a trace of weary languor rests upon that ivory brow,
No vague sigh of restless yearning e’er escapes her bosom now;
Yet more fair and happy looks she, in that simple garb I ween,
Than when, robed in lace and jewels, she was called a ballroom’s queen.

Abuse
He was little at the time,
She was only a child,
But both were abused,
And had been for a while.
Their father was cruel,
Mean and heartless.
The way he hurt them,
Made it look effortless.
He locked her up,
In a room up the stair.
And left the house drunk,
Leaving her there.
He was hit from the mum,
A blow to the face.
The way they were treated,
Was an utter disgrace.
He couldn't get up,
He couldn't fight back.
For food to get stronger,
Was something he lacked.
The little girl was left,
Alone in the dark.
Cradling her arm,
On which was a mark.
Her wrist had been used,
To put out a cigarette stump.
Buring through the skin,
Leaving her with a lump.
He had been kicked,
When he was down.
Kicked for just being there,
Kicked down to the ground.
She had been someone,
For her parents alone,
To personally hurt,
When they were at home.
These children were hurt,
Outside and in.
They'd been physically abused,
And hurt right within.
Their pride had been banished,
Long, long ago.
They couldn't stand up,
And simply say, 'No! '
The children died,
Not older than three.
The boy protecting his sister,
The girl clutching her teddy.
They had bruises,
Up and down their arms.
But they had escaped,
Escaped from further harm.
I wish that I could have,
Had the courage to speak.
To tell someone of this abuse,
That happened each week.
I could have made a difference,
For this little boy and girl,
I could have made a difference,
That they could mean the whole world.
So if you know of any,
Type of abuse.
Tell the helpline to today,
Before someones life is what we loose.

I have a friend far across the sea.
We have never met,
but she is never far away.
Our hands have never touched,
but our hearts have,
through our words
that bring comfort and console.
We are not related,
but a big brother she thinks I am.
She is always writing
about this distant friend.
So now is my chance
to write one for her.
I hope when she reads it
she will get a silly grin.
29 June 2007

My brother Jim's a millionaire,
while I have scarce a penny;
His face is creased with lines of care,
While my mug hasn't any.
With inwardness his eyes are dim,
While mine laugh out in glee,
And though I ought to envy him,
I think he envies me.
He has a chateau, I a shack,
And humble I should be
To see his stately Cadillac
Beside my jalopy.
With chain of gold his belly's girt,
His beard is barber trim;
Yet bristle-chinned with ragged shirt,
I do not envy Jim.
My brother is a man of weight;
For every civic plum
He grabs within one pie of state,
While I am just a bum.
Last Winter he was near to croak
With gastric ulcers grim. . . .
And no! although I'm stony broke
I will not envy Jim
He gets the work, I get the fun;
He has no tie for play;
Whereas with paddle, rod and gun
My life's a holiday.
As over crabbed script he pores
I can the sky's blue rim. . . .
Oh boy! While I have God's outdoors
I'll never envy Jim.

Tell me something my Cyber Lover,
do you happen to have a brother?
It's just I have a Cyber Friend out there,
and for her welfare I really care
He must of course be the perfect man,
and write like you, tell me he can?
For I cannot possibly share you,
my heart would simply break in two!
(LOL - for 'L')

If God could give us a new brother?
What type of broyher would he give us?
Would he be a very friendly brother?
If God could give us a new brother?
It would be nice to have a brother that listens to us
If God could give us a new brother?
Could he be our friend?
Could he share his feelings with us?
If God could give us a new brother?
Could he stop to put us down?
Could he show us his love?
If God could give us a new brother?
It would be impossible
Because there would had to be our mother and father
They would be the ones that could do it through God
Now it is history for us
Unless it is a friend that is humble
A friend that has some feelings and understanding
He could be our new brother
Brothers we can never change
Or get rid of
They are a part of us
Weather we like it or not

She’s lying on the bed, comatose
No familiar faces around, she could stare
Ironic, there was a smell of calitos
Rising up breezily into the air
Somewhere, a patient has died
Of drug overdose
Superstition belief, is to bear
The curse’s door, is to close
Yesterday someone knocked her down
Whilst she was walking down the road
But no one could be found
As who to blame for the sin load
My brother, a sister and me
Watching helplessly
A mother’s love is about to cease
Taste of life will be bitter
God, help us please
You too have taken away our father
My brother, a sister and me
Will life be better?
Those we loved are no longer here
Eternal pains will be forever
My brother, a sister and me
Living in naive, poverty and fear
Thinking who will be
In the next tier,
Climbs to You
To be with our father
And…probably our mother
Too
08/01/2008
Re public of Singapore

My brother
My brother is my keeper
My brother is my best friend
My brother is my pain
My brother is my hero
To take life
To have life
My brother did both
He is the source of all evil
The good in every evil
He lay down at let life fly
When he arise he wants to die
To take life to a new heights
My brother is my keeper
My brother is my best friend
My brother is my pain
My brother is my hero
He does things that hurt me so bad
That I wish he would die
He punishes me for the simplest thing
That’s when I turn mean
He tells on me to mother
When I do nothing at all
My brother is my keeper
My brother is my best friend
My brother is my pain
My brother is my hero
He is my best friend
My friend that would do anything for me
From taking a life
To giving CPR
Stand next to me from thick and thin
Until the end of our time
My brother is my keeper
My brother is my best friend
My brother is my pain
My brother is my hero
He is my keeper
My keeper that feeds me
That helps me make decisions
He is were my home is
He will take a bullet, or knife
To throat
He is my and all ways will be my keeper
My brother Lamont
My brother is my keeper
My brother is my best friend
My brother is my pain
My brother is my hero

Behold! three sister-wonders, in whom met,
Distinct and chast, the splendrous counterfeit
Of Juno, Venus and the warlike Maid,
Each in their three divinities array'd;
The majesty and state of Heav'ns great Queen,
And when she treats the gods, her noble meen;
The sweet victorious beauties and desires
O' th' sea-born princess, empresse too of fires;
The sacred arts and glorious lawrels torn
From the fair brow o' th' goddesse father-born;
All these were quarter'd in each snowy coat,
With canton'd honours of their own, to boot.
Paris, by fate new-wak'd from his dead cell,
Is charg'd to give his doom impossible.
He views in each the brav'ry of all Ide;
Whilst one, as once three, doth his soul divide.
Then sighs so equally they're glorious all:
WHAT PITY THE WHOLE WORLD IS BUT ONE BALL!

I.
If teares could wash the ill away,
A pearle for each wet bead I'd pay;
But as dew'd corne the fuller growes,
So water'd eyes but swell our woes.
II.
One drop another cals, which still
(Griefe adding fuell) doth distill;
Too fruitfull of her selfe is anguish,
We need no cherishing to languish.
III.
Coward fate degen'rate man
Like little children uses, when
He whips us first, untill we weepe,
Then, 'cause we still a weeping keepe.
IV.
Then from thy firme selfe never swerve;
Teares fat the griefe that they should sterve;
Iron decrees of destinie
Are ner'e wipe't out with a wet eye.
V.
But this way you may gaine the field,
Oppose but sorrow, and 'twill yield;
One gallant thorough-made resolve
Doth starry influence dissolve.

The darned life crawls through the smooth & silky roads
But rival thorns; And he feels the fragrance of a distant Gypsy flower
But his patchy lungs won't keep enough breath for the tiresome journey.
*To my first kind critic of the site
poetess Amanda. Lukas

I met someone somewhere out there
One angel, with eyes that dare
I saw him sent from the sky
Oh, he’s an angel, an angel of a butterfly
Dark angel, cricket angel, my only angel
You had no idea what is heaven and what is hell
Gazing into your blue eyes when we first met
Wow, I knew then, you were a heaven sent
Dark angel, you are a white angel
You lighted my path when dark days prevail
Now I know, you didn’t walk away
Stay with me, is all I pray
Dark angel, oh my angel
Cover me, fly beside me
I love you, I need you with me
All I wanted is only you and me
I  love you
-your butterfly angel-

The butterfly was young
Her vibrant wings of delicate lace
Such grace such poise
A hcarming butterfly
The cricket was slick thicket
Moving quick but swift
Yet smart somewhat wise
Proud of his chirp
Hopping through the grass
Butterfly fluttered by till upon a rose
Spreading her wings a dainty show
Slowly sipping sweet
Hopping skipping
Cricket saw
Butterfly glanced
The cricket saw butterfly
The butterfly looked yonder
Cricket hopped and chirped
A jumpety crickety song
Butterfly sighed
And rolled her eyes
Cricket hopped closer
Butterfly laughed
Silly cricket trying hard
Butterfly cared less
Poor cricket hopped and hopped
Butterfly sipping nectar sweet
Cricket sang sonfter sweeter
Butterfly stopped
A song so sweet
Too lovely than nectar
Cricket hopped upon a rose
Butterfly jumped
Almost to fly away
Cricket song too lovely to fly away
Butterfly in a trance
Fluttering her wings lovely
Too charming
Too tempting
Crickect sang
Butterfly in a spell
Too late to break
Lovers forever
Strange couple though
Yet lovely
Yet happy
Suave cricket, Princess Butterfly
Flutterby, flutterby.......

Butterfly, the wind blows sea-ward,
strong beyond the garden-wall!
Butterfly, why do you settle on my
shoe, and sip the dirt on my shoe,
Lifting your veined wings, lifting them?
big white butterfly!
Already it is October, and the wind
blows strong to the sea
from the hills where snow must have
fallen, the wind is polished with
snow.
Here in the garden, with red
geraniums, it is warm, it is warm
but the wind blows strong to sea-ward,
white butterfly, content on my shoe!
Will you go, will you go from my warm
house?
Will you climb on your big soft wings,
black-dotted,
as up an invisible rainbow, an arch
till the wind slides you sheer from the
arch-crest
and in a strange level fluttering you go
out to sea-ward, white speck!
Anonymous submission.

Im homeless
As wonderer as dandelion
Lead me, butterfly!
Over the rainbow gate
Where my lover lives
Among roses
Waiting for me

Chuang Tzu in dream became a butterfly,
And the butterfly became Chuang Tzu at waking.
Which was the real—the butterfly or the man ?
Who can tell the end of the endless changes of things?
The water that flows into the depth of the distant sea
Returns anon to the shallows of a transparent stream.
The man, raising melons outside the green gate of the city,
Was once the Prince of the East Hill.
So must rank and riches vanish.
You know it, still you toil and toil,—what for?

I saw a butterfly today
Small and green with no wings
Crawlsing into shadows\hiding from a world who ignores it's subtle beauty
Afraid to never be noticed...appreciated
I saw a butterfly today
Camoflauged and shielded in self-made walls
Neglecting the world of it's gentle touch
Afraid to be met with a forceful hand
I saw a butterfly today
Wings new and fresh
Excited with exhileration
Facing a world with new courage
Knowing it can not be harmed
I saw a butterfly today
Blue and gold streaked the sky
embracing the sunlight's rays
Fluttering around my head
Carring my heart on her flight
I saw a butterfly today

Once you touch a butterfly
it often, flustered, fails to flutter,
and cannot soar into the sky
without a sputter and may splutter,
because for butterflies the touch
of humans, friend or enemy,
can be calamitous, the clutch
of humankind’s hegemony.
When touching those whom we befriend,
no less than those whom we betroth,
we must take care lest we offend,
for, whether butterfly or moth,
the ones for whom we care may find
it hard to soar if we should brush
the dust, though trying to be kind,
from wings that, having touched, we crush.
8/3/00

There was never a Queen like Balkis,
From here to the wide world's end;
But Balkis talked to a butterfly
As you would talk to a friend.
There was never a King like Solomon
Not since the world began;
But Solomon talked to a butterfly
As a man would talk to a man.
She was Queen of Sabea--
And he was Asia's Lord--
But they both of 'em talked to butterflies
When they took their walks abroad!

A car is a car
If it can ride you nearby or far
A car is a car
When it gets you in time to the bar
A car is a car
When you are addressed as Madam or Sir
But for some
A car is not just a car
It is a home
After a daylight roam
It is a home
After a nightly roam
Kind of like a homelessness
Reoccurring syndrome
Now give me any banger of a car
I'll give it hotly showers of a sauna
Play sweet tunes to it from a guitar
By the time you watch me stand by it
And pose with an exotic cigar
Waiting to take you out to dinar
You may even prefer it to a modernised jaguar
You see, to me
A car is just a car
Be it in a new silver shining coat
Or one decorated with tarnished scars
The simple reality
Is they all have similar
Passenger capacity
Whether be it a personalised 8 seater stretch limousine
Or a Ferrari with an exploding roaring engine
A car is a car
A vehicle of motion
A medium of transportation
Even when it shows signs of erosion
As long as it can move from junction to junction
I personally sanction
A car is just a car
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
www.sylviachidi.co.uk
Che ck out my latest 'Justice & If I were a girl'

Cars and donkey carts, dust and noise, heat and mob
of humanity in a narrow street...Shoving and pushing
yet affable, of peoples who share a common bond.
A sharp flash that for a moment blinds the sun, then
the blast of an explosion, a shocked silence one can
hear a ticking clock, miles away.
Ambulance, police, screams and blood, when chaos
has abated, what’s left in the street are sandals that
belonged to those in the morgue...

Once apon a time, long, long ago
Daddy's car broke down when he bumped into a doe.
Mummy got her mobile, and called it to get towed
But when the fella came he said it was too big a load.
Brother bought an Ipod and listened all the while
Sister in the back put all her toys into a pile.
Daddy had a little fight with big man with a truck,
Mummy held a little tight to sisters toy pet duck.
Brother started singing when his favorite tune came on,
Daddy got a bruise when he said big man wieghed a tonne.
Mummy in the back looking for a big band-aid,
Sister saying help as she got on her knees and prayed.
i live in a family of nuts, so what more can i say
Other than i was surprised when that dead doe ran away.

Exceptions are there are none.
Why there are none but after that being done unto me even the headlong car is not feared, my race was half ran before it was over.
As for fear of rape inside by men is it different than for woman?
Which is Kanpuu who is it to know and blows time over everything;
As for the body left by they whom know to wander aimlessly for there transgressions in my mind, unorthodox never to walk the road.
Of the sand which you can stoop down to gather up through open hands, independently through the pine forest.
My road was not of such to rise to the road which crosses over the mountain of which becomes bald.
Forever is ever when that aluminum of the mouth, there is no I,
that person looking at it that it rises to my your the one.
When never to open the door to the knock, spearing the throat there is no pointed razor which eats off the pasture.
The rear seat of fear,
and the front of the car can be dark each aspect of both applying, haunted house of the sky and others farming it out and others as for the key which makes sucking wet sounds snake' You like;
The warning is.
I have fear of that person of no smile.

Last night I drove a car
not knowing how to drive
not owning a car
I drove and knocked down
people I loved
...went 120 through one town.
I stopped at Hedgeville
and slept in the back seat
...excited about my new life.

I love my
Car...
My car...
Is only
Two weels...
No want petrole...
No want Bio- gas...
Two member only
Travel my car...
Every wear...
Every side...
My car move and move...
Run and run...
with my leg speed...
I was play my car...
Each every day...
Another's called my car name
Was cycle...
I was lovengely calling car...
Yes...
Cycle is my car...
What is your car...!

Parked at the curb,
The Petaluma Police could not observe,
The car their sarge had parked;
Not very far,
I found me that car,
And quickly thereto embarked;
While I approached the police cruiser,
I viewed the 'soon to be' accuser,
Yet continued on with my plan;
Two tires were popped,
As downward they dropped,
I fled in my sedan;
A laughing desire,
Brought a slash to each tire,
Done in full brightness of the day;
There I lurked,
Around the corner the cops worked,
And with them came my chance to play;
;
From each tire's quick blow,
Came the thrill hearing the air let flow,
And to the ground them rims did go;
By the knife's quick swing,
Came laughter from the hiss sound of air leaking,
While leaving the surprise of needing a tow;
No, 'Candid Camera' wasn't there,
To capture the officer's expression or glare,
When he viewed the car he left so careless;
Did he first move his car,
To discover that he couldn't drive far? ,
Did he hear the hiss or were they flat and airless?
Oh, what a dare,
For me to hear that gush sound of air,
Then escape, without being caught;
But with a short quiz,
The accuser said, 'I know who it is! ',
Well, my sedan, the police then sought;
My laughter was hard,
While I headed for my yard,
Though trouble was coming my way;
All patrol units looked about,
To search me out,
For the trouble that I now must pay,
While homeward I scoot,
Came a Sonoma County sheriff's deputy in pursuit,
Riding his cruiser close to my rear;
Bright red lights flashed on,
The fun was gone,
But still, I had no fear;
The joy it brought,
Was lost when caught,
And the laughter vanished away;
Very few people knew,
About the other police tires I blew,
And now just caught this day;
Stopped outside my home gate,
Came red lights  to wait,
The identification of who they caught;
Patrol units swarmed about,
It was me, they had no doubt,
They've captured who they sought;
Police car hysteria,
Was swarming the area,
Oh, it was boiling hot;
Like a beehive ready,
With a sting so steady,
A large police force quickly was brought;
'Put cuffs on them hands...'
As the police sergeant commands,
'...then take 'em in for lockup...'
With two flats on the cruiser,
The joke was a doozer,
As the number of times, years over, buildup;
I was brought before a judge,
But really...I had no grudge,
Gave forty dollars to the bondsman to bail;
As the jail door opened wide,
Quickly, I dashed outside,
Now released from the Sonoma County Jail;
I appeared in court again and again,
But a plea bargain made that end,
And no more jail time had I to pay;
Made unhappy, I was,
But that could be because,
'Pay for two tires and don't do it again', heard I, the court say;
Other police agencies know,
Twenty-eight of their tires went low,
The Cotati police headquarters suffered the worst;
Well, with two tires to buy,
My score remains still very high,
Considering the others I prior had burst;
If it ever happens again,
It won't be me, though I'll still grin.
I've retired, finally, from this crime;
The memory I still  bare,
The laughter, its thrill and dare;
And the story turned now into rhyme;

dirt track slopes to sky
penning five hundred horses
running with thunder.

Are you born to be a race car driver?
Even if not, many of you are a race traveler.
Many are ambitious, would like to beat the other,
On any cost became a winner.
When one is a winner, there are many loser,
Competition, hatred, anger & jealousy, but never laughter.
Is it worth to push for winning?
And became the most envied hated being.

morrow is a promise
today is here
seize it, seize it, seize it
should I live or hope to live?
every man dies, not everyman lives
in living, we fail to live
nature offers  day
so it's lived, not preserved
oh come dearest chums!
gather moola
this night
every other night, let's
sip jiggles of scotch, fume cigars
pluck damsels
oh come sweetest!
let's cover the skies, oceans too
canoodle come dusk
delay not, our stuff will not endure
embrace morrow's promise
but celebrate now's joy
life well lived is suffice
savour life's minutes
dwell in the moment
NOW is everything

Tick tock, how time does fly,
slipping through my fingers;
wasting my days till I die.
The morning tides, a blessing;
I should seize the day.
Another day leaving me guessing,
if time itself would stray.
Yet my hours foretold of that of bore;
I lose myself within.
Many times of yore.
Many times of then.
So I gaze upon the clock;
the hands slowly pass,
slower with the hours flock.
I without a cause;
I feel lost with time
For me, time does not pause-
when I long for sublime.
I admit I am weak,
I am only a man;
whom were as bleak,
whom without a plan.
Lost in life and in time,
without a reason for a reason;
the only truest crime.
The echo of the ticking clock-
cries out, mocking me;
grasping time by the stock,
yet still I refuse to see.
Confusion reigns over me,
I know not my desire;
whether to die or to see,
whether time cast out my fire.
My fire, the urge to live on,
through the days of down;
the hours marks my dawn.
I am blessed with a gift of a new day;
it should not go to waste.
Being as it may,
I shouldn't have haste.
I've taken life for granted,
it is just that;
this life I lived is canted,
like time itself begat.
Life is fragile, I shall not stray;
time is only a memory;
I should seized the day.

Seize the moment when the sun shines,
When people ccan only think of happy times.
Birds are singing,
Babies laughing,
Everythings calm and stays in line.
Cherish this moment, fore when it ends,
The world is broken and filled with sin.
People dying,
Babies crying.
The war continues and there's pain again.

There is so little time to spare
In a world that whizzes round
At the speed of light, the giddy light
Blinding the eyes and mind.
Snatch each moment of the day;
Steal each breath from the night
Before death comes on silent feet
And sweeps you out of sight.

when you spend your life fearing death
you'll spend your death hating life
carpe diem
drunk and alone
puts me in a zone
story of my life
being born
bordem
complication growing
medication
mutilation
marijuana< br>long rides in a worn out car
not knowing where you are
confusion
love
hate
finding my gate
traveling
welcome home... get out of my house
trailer park fun
waiting for the sun
debts and bets
walking the line
insanity is yours
but freedom is mine

Swift comes the opportunity
On wings of chance sublime
We ought not to waste it in vain
May it not come again, the other time?
So grab it by any luck
Let it not be slipped loose
Master your fear, hone your senses
Moment you wait for, comes true.

Age saw two quiet children
Go loving by at twilight,
He knew not whether homeward,
Or outward from the village,
Or (chimes were ringing) churchward,
He waited, (they were strangers)
Till they were out of hearing
To bid them both be happy.
'Be happy, happy, happy,
And seize the day of pleasure.'
The age-long theme is Age's.
'Twas Age imposed on poems
Their gather-roses burden
To warn against the danger
That overtaken lovers
From being overflooded
With happiness should have it.
And yet not know they have it.
But bid life seize the present?
It lives less in the present
Than in the future always,
And less in both together
Than in the past. The present
Is too much for the senses,
Too crowding, too confusing-
Too present to imagine.

‘Carpe diem! ’
a father snapped at his idle son
who was still languishing
in bed at noon.
‘I deem crap –
(anagram) ’ the lad fired back
quick as a flash
across the room.

I intend to live out the rest of my days
By rejoicing in every fleeting moment;
By courting love & beauty not dark despair;
By praying that vital gods will bless me.
For I know not the day nor the hour
When death will hover over me and beat
Its terrible wings and it will all end.
In a heartbeat; in the twinkling of an eye.

A change is what everybody dreams and wants to see
The change we see – is it better or bad? It’s the question!
Every morning the colourful Sun rise is beautiful to see!
The singing birds inspire us to be free and happy in life!
The jolly good squirrels kindle us too to play as they do!
We can see crows and sparrows all around our houses!
We see beautiful clouds of colour changes at the Sunset,
Night sky full of countless Stars and Moon shining bright!
All these things are Nature at its best nobody can neglect!
Now those things we cannot see and enjoy anymore so!
Morning and evening twilights are beautifully all right;
Stars and Moon in the night times are as usual perfect.
But Nature on the Earth has changed without any doubt!
Farming lands have turned into Satellite towns around town;
Crows, sparrows have disappeared with the destruction of trees!
Farmers have come to towns to work as masons and mill workers;
Population, traffic, pollution have increased with food grain price!
Money is not enough to buy all people need as rain in summer!
Men drink and talk themselves and lie on the pavements;
At night it is common they sleep where dogs and pigs frequent;
All have become one according to socialism politics advocates!
Swine flu, bird flu and SARS are spreading the entire world now!
And Stars and Moon wink eyes at this big farce of society so!

For one ruined in love, the old status quo
Offers comfort of a kind tho' cold.
Suffering neglect, your heart is a wreck,
Yet one's vow demands payment of debt.
Honorbound to see old promises through,
Despite the cost and the loss, you do.
For years it's been wrong, and forever's so long,
Wanting to be held, to be known, to belong.
Chances to let go, to be free and to know
How good it feels as love flowers and grows
Have come and gone just as dusk chases dawn,
Like pretty dreams light a world dark and wan.
Change is a Chance taken - - not another need
Forsaken to spare one whose tight heart will bleed.
Don't fear that long leap o'er the abyss of trust,
Just close your eyes... life without love is but dust.

Change is hard
i try to change
Sorry im such a disapointment
I show great deplore
Couldn't live up to your excpectations
I try to change for the nation
Even tried consultation
there is no short cut
Gotta take the long road
So your probably fed-up
my heart has been cut up
there isn't much more i can do
tried everything for you
thats cause change is hard
feels like i've been hung out to dry
In front of a hundred eyes
I do try
but thats not enough
not enough for change

Their fake smiles surround me.
I’m on the outside looking in.
Because I didn’t take wear the right clothes.
Well I think its time to spread these wings.
You never helped me.
You never listened to what I had to say.
You never made me feel good.
You made me feel like dirt.
But still I call you my friend.
I’m going through this with you.
But it feels as though I’m alone.
I can’t call you when he’s leaving.
His bags all packed.
Because he has found a better more perfect family.
So as tears flood my eyes.
They pour down my cheeks leaving puddles on the floor.
Barely being able to speak.
I reach for the phone.
Dialing your number.
Trying to reach someone to tell me everything will be fine.
Reaching out before I die.
Pulling that trigger with the barrel pressed against my head.
I finally get you.
And yet you tell me just to go to bed.
Pain and hurt rushes over.
I’m alone.
There’s no one here to talk me to sleep.
No one to help me through.
I’m stuck here in hell.
To never return back.
Can’t you just lend a hand.
Someone please help.
As I think that it is over.
I’ve watched betrayal from my father.
And I don’t want you do to the same.
Finding a more perfect and better friend.
Because I was there for you when your grandma died.
Now I’m dying but your not here.
I need you to be here.
Beside me.
Making me feel better.
But no your not.
Because I’m your old friend.
Im sorry that I didn’t wear the right clothes.
I didn’t have the ins.
I’m not sorry that I was your friend.
You were like a sister.
But now you won’t even open up your arms to me.
I feel hopeless.
This trigger is pressed even harder to my skull.
Just.Pull.The.Trigger.
This house has come crashing down.
The lies.
The tears.
The screams.
Why won’t you just say 3 little words.
Everything.
Is.
Ok.
This is my last cry for help.
Just reach out.
As I’m reaching out now.
I’ve given you all the signs.
And you know too.
But you won’t reach for me.
I’m going.
Slowly I’m going further to that black hole.
Why can’t you just help?
Goodbye.

Who am I now
I have lost my way
the hours go faster somehow
and months past before the days
at an incredible speed
I follow instead of lead
so many choices are before me
which path will make me happy
Copyright @ Aqua Flower

I love the way you talk to anyone, do you have to talk to her
I love the way you love animals, you know I’m allergic to fur
I love the way you are different, you’re not going out in that hat
I love the way you dance, do you have to embarrass me like that
I love the way you are well read, you gonna waste money on that book
I love the way you think I’m beautiful, why’d you give me that leering look
I love the way you’ll help anyone, bet it’s just to fuel your ego
I love the way you’re spontaneous, this isn’t where I wanted to go
I love the way I fill you with desire, I told you I’m not in the mood
I love the way you’re relaxed about your body, do you really need all that food
I love the way you are still fun, do you really need that toy
I love the way you still act young, sometimes you’re like a little boy
I love the way you collect me from work, isn’t it time you got a new car
I love the way I feel natural around you, stop looking while I’m only in my bra
I love the way you always have a smile, why’d you have to wear that silly grin
I love that you just let yourself go, do you really have to try to sing
And if you keep on with that annoying laugh I don’t think I’ll last another day
I’m so glad we met ‘cos I think that you’re perfect … why you walking away?

Why do people change?
What is the problem with being yourself?
Are you scared of ruining your image?
Is that more important?
Why do people change?
Can’t they just be themselves?
Why do they go away?
Do they think they’re cool because they wear the same jeans?
Why do people change?
Can’t the world just stay the same?
Who cares if you hair isn’t straight?
Who cares if your mouth isn't always open?
Why do people change?
Why do people hide under a mask?
Are they afraid they won't be accepted anymore?
Who do people shun others who are unlike?
Why do people change?
Is the change for the good of the world?
Or is it for the need to feel wanted?
Why do people feel they aren't good enough?
Are you?
Will you change?

The world of men, women and children, change;
Their food-habits and dressing styles may change;
Their ways of talking, walking, laughing, change;
But Bible’s words are true and never change!
Man’s outlook and his sense of values change;
The weather, climate, seasons also change;
The water of rivers and seas may change,
But Scripture’s words are true and never change!
Man’s needs in life and ambitions may change
Man’s occupations, moral values, change
Man’s goals and approaches also may change,
But Holy Scripture’s words will never change.
The devils too, their tempting tactics, change;
God’s love for man is same and will not change.

Change is inevitable,
But yet we fight it, just the same.
Change is essential to our evolution.
Change is going to happen,
In fact, it happens every day,
Maybe it is too small to see, or perhaps we would rather not see it.
We fight change, because we fight the unknown,
We fight the unknown, because we are scared,
Scared of change, scared of the unknown.
If we were to allow change to happen freely,
We might find solutions to the problems that exist around us,
But instead, we are hung - up on controlling everything around us.
Maybe this is the problem with the world today.
Everyone assumes control of everything and does not allow nature to run her course.
Maybe this is why, we have devastating fall out from Nature,
Natural catastrophic disasters, such as fire and flooding.
We fight change, therefore we are fighting nature and her natural being and her existence
in the world that she has created by God's hand and has graciously allowed us to be a
part of.
We should welcome change and allow nature to control our destiny.
Change is uncontrollable,
Change is inevitable,
Change is the unknown.
Nature takes pride in being one of life's illusive wonders, the unknown.

AND so one day he got fed up
Worrying about his bills
Light, cell phones,
Apartment rents
Meals and what to eat
Next month
No money to
Send to the
Philippines
There is no work coming
And the old man he took care of
Died a month ago
Bad luck
He is vacant
He could not go to the malls
There is no money left for the week
And there is no work coming
No one is offering to help
And he worries
About his telephone bills
His credit card
His rent
His SSS
His unrenewed passport
His expiring visa
His debts
One day he goes outside
It is quite cold
Colder now
The snow is coming
He smokes his cigarette packs on the park
A middle-aged American woman stares and tells her
“Smoking is bad for your health
You are polluting the earth”
Just a little advice
But his head is hot and
Hot temper is what is steaming inside
He is fuming mad to that middle aged American woman
He is also fuming mad about
Himself to be honest
About it
“Shit shit shit, I smoke if I want to
I use my own money to kill myself
F###k YOU!
Mind your own American business
In this free country I can smoke anytime I want! ”.
He knows how to curse now
In the most American way
For just a year or two
he was a timid Filipino
he was the meek citizen
of this world
And he smokes all day in the park
his packs of cigarettes in the park
Puffing and puffing and breathing and breathing
Releasing all his dismays in cold air
He can see his bleeding heart
His cursing
“f##k you! ”
'f$$k you! '
in the freezing air
his cursing is a big bold font
in the atmosphere
His cell phone does not have any load
And he cannot call anybody
And he remembers well the latest old
Jewish rich man which he took care of
who died a month ago
One day the old man fell on the floor
The one who shitted him all day
he still could remember
fully well
all the old man's yell
spell: F$$K YOU! '
The old man could not stand
back
He was big, fat, and dying
He did not help him stand
He merely stood there askance
And the old man shouted and growled
“Shit shit you Filipino
Help me stand from here”
'F$$K YOU FILIPINO! '
And he said
WITH ALL STRICT COMPOSURE
SO SURE OF HIMSELF NOW
with a little authoritative
moral advice
like he was a wise man
“Rich American now is the time
for you to
Command all your mighty dollars
your mighty dollars
your mighty dollars
your mighty dollars
To help you rise and make
You, young and strong again! ”
The old Jewish rich man died
Due to cardiac arrest.
And now he is out of job
No money
No promises
And one day now
He finds himself smoking himself to death
On this cold dark wildlife park south of
Chicago.

Through all the moving thoroughfares
And in the contending marts of trade;
Within the babbling magazines and
Even as I rode the surcharged vehicles
Which rolled at dizzy onwardness
Without the impulse of the harnessed steed;
During the waking hours, bewhiles
I battled with the reckless wind
And closed my eyes against the tossing clouds
Of vitrified disturbance, soot, dust,
Tattered papyrus and all the medleyed rubbish
Of the city's ways;
All this time, as I again declare,
And likewise in the night, when I,
In company with highty-ti revelers,
Did run with bunches of anticipation
Toward the gleaming letters far above
The portals of Thespis' temple;
And later yet, when all we creatures of the night
Did seek our warm retreats
To feast on rabbits, explosive salads
And the clammy crabmeat of commerce;
All during this long while, as I do now
Most solemnly and fearfully asseverate,
There came to my ear, with never pause,
A soft and hollow rattle.
At times, methought, 'twas like the
Spilling of many dead men's bones
In the adjoining vault. Again,
It seemed more like the tapping '
Of distant castanets — a dream
Of dark-eyed Spanish women, soiled and superb,
Who moved in jerky measures while
The yellow dust rose to obscure
The fierce colors. But, truth to tell,
'Twas neither. Clickety-click, clickety-click,
I heard it yet again, and I asked:
' Is this some dread distemper of the brain,
Some fungus growth in my imaginings?
Do I alone of mortal men distinguish
This smothered clatter, hidden, elusive ?'
When I did full relate my fears
To the good y Esculapius, he said:
' Fear not; 'twas actual sound you heard,
And you are not, as you might well suppose,
Entirely separated from your trolley.'
Continuing, then, with kindly air, he told:
' The tiny rattling sounds which do attend
You and all others in this wintry clime,
Are the concussions of the quinine pellet
Tossing within its pasteboard cage;
For know you well that all men,
Likewise the women and the tender young,
The aged and infirm no more than those
Who claim youth's lusty strength,
The plain and eke the fair,
The rich and humble, frugal and
Improvident, all, all, carry concealed
The potent ammunition of the season;
And as they move upon their daily
Occupations, you hear from underneath
Their woolen garments, toward the Jaeger depths,
Muffled and yet distinct, and always rhythmical,
' Clickety-click, clickety-click, clickety-click,'
The tattoo of the quinine pellet.
Join all the others — take my solemn tip,
Prepare to meet thine enemy, the grip.'

the aura of dusk
it walks alone at
segregated paths
you walk
towards a room
which can never
be your home
for your home is here
and there is no
promise
that you will come
back
no one figures out
the reason
for this self
ostracism
if you ask me there
are designs for
happy shapes which
time in some ways
shall teach
us
how to mold and cut
and finally
show
you walk away and
that is the end of
how we can think of you
what we have is a mist
and then
the morning light
takes it
away
i know how cold it is
there
but what can we really do?

Your violet eyes, your black hair flying in the wind. I glance out the window and see the highway we're on. I wonder when we'll get there. to the city I've choosen to stay for college.
You spoke to me, saying we'll be there soon. You hold my hand on the seat of your truck. The truck you'll be selling, for a motorcycle. i smile, remembering how excited he was when he told me.
Chicago, that's where we're headed. It's where I need to be for college. He parks the truck finally in front of our new apartment. My other roomates aren't there yet, but they will be soon.
Chicago is gorgeous, but I'm not staying long.
Just four years and I'm gone.

If we tear it apart and I hug you too hard
maybe we can go
back to that Chicago skyline
and not worry about all the monsters and mountains we've seen here.
I'm made of feathers when you breathe out
words I've never wanted to hear
so I am crying out the dust you've left in my chest
I want to catch what you want between my teeth and give it to you
I want to dance until I can build myself back into stone
but I have never been able to dance
when you're not here.
Now I can see how we are so good at failing.
All I want is to go
back to Chicago
so we can be the girls standing where the earth meets the water,
so the tide will never rise if you stand so still,
close your eyes,
only open your mouth
to tell me this is where we belong
and I will clutch your pieces even if they draw blood from my hands,
make me believe we are surviving and
you will never fade again.
If I can't take you with me
I will paint you into the Chicago skyline.

To-day, fair Thisbe, winsome girl!
Strays o'er the meads where daisies blow,
Or, ling'ring where the brooklets purl,
Laves in the cool, refreshing flow.
To-morrow, Thisbe, with a host
Of amorous suitors in her train,
Comes like a goddess forth to coast
Or skate upon the frozen main.
To-day, sweet posies mark her track,
While birds sing gayly in the trees;
To-morrow morn, her sealskin sack
Defies the piping polar breeze.
So Doris is to-day enthused
By Thisbe's soft, responsive sighs,
And on the morrow is confused
By Thisbe's cold, repellent eyes.

on his third marriage
he still has preschoolers
at an age where
he is supposed to go
on a Caribbean cruise
or a getaway in the
Bahamas
his first marriage
was a case of betrayal
while he works away
from him
his wife invited her man
in the marital bedroom
his second marriage was
worst
the woman turns out to
be a lesbian
his third marriage is a kind
of suspense
ten years younger than
his actual age
and bearing him
for now three children
and he is looking still
for more spills

Stumbled out of bed this mornin'
Don't know where I been.
Don't know what the haps last night
But it must have been a sin.
‘Cause today I got the lowdown blues,
The Southside Chicago mind-numbin' blues
I know my baby left me
That much I will confess.
Said I was a no-good worthless bum
And my life was in a mess.
Gave me the sorrowful blues,
The Southside Chicago pate-scramblin' blues.
Got out the frying pan
Made me some eggs and ham.
What a miserable life you lead
When you're livin' on the lam.
It's enough to give an old ex-con the lowlife blues
The Southside Chicago brain-dead blues.
Got to get my act together
Got to get my baby back
‘Cause I'm no good without her
And that's a goddurn fact.
Got to shake these dreadful blues,
These Southside Chicago drivin'-me-crazy blues.
Called her on the phone today
Begged her come on home
Promised I would shape up good
And never more to roam.
These awful blues are killin' me
These Southside Chicago ball-breakin' blues
She said Don't call me up no more
You're just a no-good cheatin' liar
I wouldn't even piss on you
If you was caught afire
I hope you keep your freakin' blues
Those Southside Chicago pot-smokin' blues.
Please don't give up on me
Try to show some pity
‘Cause without you life is empty
In this lonely windy city
While I suffer with these desolation blues
These Southside Chicago mind-numbin',
Pate-scramblin' brain-dead, drivin'-me-crazy,
Ball-breakin', pot-smokin' BLUES!

i may neglect
you for a while
my friend
for i am speaking to
a neighbor
just a stone throw away
from where
i am standing
it is different
when i speak using
my native tongue
i feel my roots down
under my feet
on the other hand
how it feels is like
seeing my old mother
again
back in the house of
our childhood
outside the guava
trees are bearing so
much fruits
heavy on its branches
tomorrow perhaps all
will be ripe
but the sad thing is
this: there is no child
anymore here
who is for the picking

Some call it checkers,
I call it draughts.
Don't play with me
If you think it's just a game
And you don't mind losing.
I play a mean game. I play to win.
Old Peter Salaveros taught me
When I was a boy.
We played on a scrubbed table
In the seamen's mess,
Just him and me.
We played seriously.
Neither of us smiled.

And as we grew older
Childhood became so distant
We were too busy being
great, being brilliant
That we stopped seeing
But were we ever young and crazy
What were our teenage years
But the yearn to be older
To be established, free from fears
We just kept getting colder
Youth is not a matter of age
But a state of mind
Fully live each day
or soon you'll find
You can't honestly say
'It's not yet too late'

Cheap and charming items
Settle on the numerous tables
Of my grandparents' customary yard sale.
Bugs visit them all on this hot but vital weekend.
One object stands out in somewhat of a spotlight.
The item is a pink dollhouse full of memory-rooms.
Once I explored it with youthful eyes –
Now that type of immature play I despise.
If I could put a price on Childhood – what would it be?
A penny or two – at the most – three.

Rays of light flow through the glass,
Flittering memories of the past.
Of happy times and playful things,
like a baby bird spreading its wings.
Flying through the sunlit air,
without worries without cares.
Its simple nature so soft and calm,
Beckons everyone like a charm.
A little fox running through the trees,
fields of flowers and their bees.
So close to heart and yet so far,
A child's life is like a shining star.

These recollections with the scent of ferns
Are the idyll of early years
(Gregorio Gutierrez González)
Accompanying the hazy memories
Time so generously glorifies,
Returning to a welcoming heart
And flocking like white butterflies,
Come fantasies of happy childhood days.
Blue Beard, Little Red Ridinghood,
Lilliputians and the giant Gulliver,
All of you, floating in the mist of dreams,
Spread your wings, fly,
So I, the happy journeyer
Through storybooks, may summon you
To join with other, beloved characters.
O blessed youth! Eyes aglimmer
With dawning discovery
Follow the weary teacher’s hand
Across the big red figures
In the tattered primer,
Where traces of vague recognition,
Rewarding periods of youthful despondency,
Beneath indifferent shadows
Begin forming letters into words
On a dewy, white,
Luminous, restless August morning,
Helping a blazing sun rise
On wings of the breeze
Toward skies dotted with drifting clouds;
Listening to a grandmother’s
Exemplary fairy tales;
Skipping school
To organize a clamorous battle
In which rocks rattle like bullets
And a rumpled kerchief becomes a flag.
Constructing a manger scene
Of materials gathered from the woods,
Then, after the long, rowdy outing
Arranging the grasses,
Coral twigs, and treasured mosses,
And on strange and alien landscapes,
Perspectives never seen or dreamed,
Creating roads of golden sand
And waterfalls of gleaming tinsel.
Positioning the Wise Men on the hill
And overhead
The star that led them from afar;
In the crib, the laughing Baby Jesus
In his bed of
Softest mosses and leafy ferns.
Pristine soul, blush-pink cheeks,
Skin like ermine on the snow,
Flaxen curls,
Sparkling yet peaceful eyes, how fair
In memory the innocent babe!
Childhood, hallowed valley
Of blessed calm and coolness,
Where rays that will later blast our days
So softly shine,
How saintly your pure innocence,
How fleeting your brief happiness,
How sweet in hours of bitterness
To turn back to the past
And call upon those memories!

CHIPS OFF THE OLD BLOKE
This face(our face)    is
passed amongst us three...brothers.
Each of us wearing
it as our own. Only Dad
owning the original.
********
FIRST LOVE
My name scrawled in chalk
coloured with the confines
of a big red heart.
Your name now...entwined with mine.
Sunlight glints off our glasses.
********
AND THE FIRST SHALL BE LAST
Winning...the sack race!
Me out on my own...winning
by a smile...easy!
Take pity on poor struggling
No.2...ahhh...let him win!
********
L’ÉTRANGER
He re, everything is
foreign...strange...unknown to him
lost now as he...is
in the streets of his childhood.
Everything...as it was...no more.
Written all over my face.
********
DÓNALL’S TRAVELS
Here, his big bedroom
shrunk to tiny box room.
His lake...a mere pond.
He now a giant among things
in the lost land of his childhood.

Downward through the evening twilight,
In the days that are forgotten,
In the unremembered ages,
From the full moon fell Nokomis,
Fell the beautiful Nokomis,
She a wife, but not a mother.
She was sporting with her women,
Swinging in a swing of grape-vines,
When her rival the rejected,
Full of jealousy and hatred,
Cut the leafy swing asunder,
Cut in twain the twisted grape-vines,
And Nokomis fell affrighted
Downward through the evening twilight,
On the Muskoday, the meadow,
On the prairie full of blossoms.
"See! a star falls!" said the people;
"From the sky a star is falling!"
There among the ferns and mosses,
There among the prairie lilies,
On the Muskoday, the meadow,
In the moonlight and the starlight,
Fair Nokomis bore a daughter.
And she called her name Wenonah,
As the first-born of her daughters.
And the daughter of Nokomis
Grew up like the prairie lilies,
Grew a tall and slender maiden,
With the beauty of the moonlight,
With the beauty of the starlight.
And Nokomis warned her often,
Saying oft, and oft repeating,
"Oh, beware of Mudjekeewis,
Of the West-Wind, Mudjekeewis;
Listen not to what he tells you;
Lie not down upon the meadow,
Stoop not down among the lilies,
Lest the West-Wind come and harm you!"
But she heeded not the warning,
Heeded not those words of wisdom,
And the West-Wind came at evening,
Walking lightly o'er the prairie,
Whispering to the leaves and blossoms,
Bending low the flowers and grasses,
Found the beautiful Wenonah,
Lying there among the lilies,
Wooed her with his words of sweetness,
Wooed her with his soft caresses,
Till she bore a son in sorrow,
Bore a son of love and sorrow.
Thus was born my Hiawatha,
Thus was born the child of wonder;
But the daughter of Nokomis,
Hiawatha's gentle mother,
In her anguish died deserted
By the West-Wind, false and faithless,
By the heartless Mudjekeewis.
For her daughter long and loudly
Wailed and wept the sad Nokomis;
"Oh that I were dead!" she murmured,
"Oh that I were dead, as thou art!
No more work, and no more weeping,
Wahonowin! Wahonowin!"
By the shores of Gitche Gumee,
By the shining Big-Sea-Water,
Stood the wigwam of Nokomis,
Daughter of the Moon, Nokomis.
Dark behind it rose the forest,
Rose the black and gloomy pine-trees,
Rose the firs with cones upon them;
Bright before it beat the water,
Beat the clear and sunny water,
Beat the shining Big-Sea-Water.
There the wrinkled old Nokomis
Nursed the little Hiawatha,
Rocked him in his linden cradle,
Bedded soft in moss and rushes,
Safely bound with reindeer sinews;
Stilled his fretful wail by saying,
"Hush! the Naked Bear will hear thee!"
Lulled him into slumber, singing,
"Ewa-yea! my little owlet!
Who is this, that lights the wigwam?
With his great eyes lights the wigwam?
Ewa-yea! my little owlet!"
Many things Nokomis taught him
Of the stars that shine in heaven;
Showed him Ishkoodah, the comet,
Ishkoodah, with fiery tresses;
Showed the Death-Dance of the spirits,
Warriors with their plumes and war-clubs,
Flaring far away to northward
In the frosty nights of Winter;
Showed the broad white road in heaven,
Pathway of the ghosts, the shadows,
Running straight across the heavens,
Crowded with the ghosts, the shadows.
At the door on summer evenings
Sat the little Hiawatha;
Heard the whispering of the pine-trees,
Heard the lapping of the waters,
Sounds of music, words of wonder;
'Minne-wawa!" said the Pine-trees,
Mudway-aushka!" said the water.
Saw the fire-fly, Wah-wah-taysee,
Flitting through the dusk of evening,
With the twinkle of its candle
Lighting up the brakes and bushes,
And he sang the song of children,
Sang the song Nokomis taught him:
"Wah-wah-taysee, little fire-fly,
Little, flitting, white-fire insect,
Little, dancing, white-fire creature,
Light me with your little candle,
Ere upon my bed I lay me,
Ere in sleep I close my eyelids!"
Saw the moon rise from the water
Rippling, rounding from the water,
Saw the flecks and shadows on it,
Whispered, "What is that, Nokomis?"
And the good Nokomis answered:
"Once a warrior, very angry,
Seized his grandmother, and threw her
Up into the sky at midnight;
Right against the moon he threw her;
'T is her body that you see there."
Saw the rainbow in the heaven,
In the eastern sky, the rainbow,
Whispered, "What is that, Nokomis?"
And the good Nokomis answered:
"'T is the heaven of flowers you see there;
All the wild-flowers of the forest,
All the lilies of the prairie,
When on earth they fade and perish,
Blossom in that heaven above us."
When he heard the owls at midnight,
Hooting, laughing in the forest,
'What is that?" he cried in terror,
"What is that," he said, "Nokomis?"
And the good Nokomis answered:
"That is but the owl and owlet,
Talking in their native language,
Talking, scolding at each other."
Then the little Hiawatha
Learned of every bird its language,
Learned their names and all their secrets,
How they built their nests in Summer,
Where they hid themselves in Winter,
Talked with them whene'er he met them,
Called them "Hiawatha's Chickens."
Of all beasts he learned the language,
Learned their names and all their secrets,
How the beavers built their lodges,
Where the squirrels hid their acorns,
How the reindeer ran so swiftly,
Why the rabbit was so timid,
Talked with them whene'er he met them,
Called them "Hiawatha's Brothers."
Then Iagoo, the great boaster,
He the marvellous story-teller,
He the traveller and the talker,
He the friend of old Nokomis,
Made a bow for Hiawatha;
From a branch of ash he made it,
From an oak-bough made the arrows,
Tipped with flint, and winged with feathers,
And the cord he made of deer-skin.
Then he said to Hiawatha:
"Go, my son, into the forest,
Where the red deer herd together,
Kill for us a famous roebuck,
Kill for us a deer with antlers!"
Forth into the forest straightway
All alone walked Hiawatha
Proudly, with his bow and arrows;
And the birds sang round him, o'er him,
"Do not shoot us, Hiawatha!"
Sang the robin, the Opechee,
Sang the bluebird, the Owaissa,
"Do not shoot us, Hiawatha!"
Up the oak-tree, close beside him,
Sprang the squirrel, Adjidaumo,
In and out among the branches,
Coughed and chattered from the oak-tree,
Laughed, and said between his laughing,
"Do not shoot me, Hiawatha!"
And the rabbit from his pathway
Leaped aside, and at a distance
Sat erect upon his haunches,
Half in fear and half in frolic,
Saying to the little hunter,
"Do not shoot me, Hiawatha!"
But he heeded not, nor heard them,
For his thoughts were with the red deer;
On their tracks his eyes were fastened,
Leading downward to the river,
To the ford across the river,
And as one in slumber walked he.
Hidden in the alder-bushes,
There he waited till the deer came,
Till he saw two antlers lifted,
Saw two eyes look from the thicket,
Saw two nostrils point to windward,
And a deer came down the pathway,
Flecked with leafy light and shadow.
And his heart within him fluttered,
Trembled like the leaves above him,
Like the birch-leaf palpitated,
As the deer came down the pathway.
Then, upon one knee uprising,
Hiawatha aimed an arrow;
Scarce a twig moved with his motion,
Scarce a leaf was stirred or rustled,
But the wary roebuck started,
Stamped with all his hoofs together,
Listened with one foot uplifted,
Leaped as if to meet the arrow;
Ah! the singing, fatal arrow,
Like a wasp it buzzed and stung him!
Dead he lay there in the forest,
By the ford across the river;
Beat his timid heart no longer,
But the heart of Hiawatha
Throbbed and shouted and exulted,
As he bore the red deer homeward,
And Iagoo and Nokomis
Hailed his coming with applauses.
From the red deer's hide Nokomis
Made a cloak for Hiawatha,
From the red deer's flesh Nokomis
Made a banquet to his honor.
All the village came and feasted,
All the guests praised Hiawatha,
Called him Strong-Heart, Soan-ge-taha!
Called him Loon-Heart, Mahn-go-taysee!

I
My childhood's home I see again,
And sadden with the view;
And still, as memory crowds my brain,
There's pleasure in it too.
O Memory! thou midway world
'Twixt earth and paradise,
Where things decayed and loved ones lost
In dreamy shadows rise,
And, freed from all that's earthly vile,
Seem hallowed, pure, and bright,
Like scenes in some enchanted isle
All bathed in liquid light.
As dusky mountains please the eye
When twilight chases day;
As bugle-tones that, passing by,
In distance die away;
As leaving some grand waterfall,
We, lingering, list its roar--
So memory will hallow all
We've known, but know no more.
Near twenty years have passed away
Since here I bid farewell
To woods and fields, and scenes of play,
And playmates loved so well.
Where many were, but few remain
Of old familiar things;
But seeing them, to mind again
The lost and absent brings.
The friends I left that parting day,
How changed, as time has sped!
Young childhood grown, strong manhood gray,
And half of all are dead.
I hear the loved survivors tell
How nought from death could save,
Till every sound appears a knell,
And every spot a grave.
I range the fields with pensive tread,
And pace the hollow rooms,
And feel (companion of the dead)
I'm living in the tombs.
II
But here's an object more of dread
Than ought the grave contains--
A human form with reason fled,
While wretched life remains.
Poor Matthew! Once of genius bright,
A fortune-favored child--
Now locked for aye, in mental night,
A haggard mad-man wild.
Poor Matthew! I have ne'er forgot,
When first, with maddened will,
Yourself you maimed, your father fought,
And mother strove to kill;
When terror spread, and neighbors ran,
Your dange'rous strength to bind;
And soon, a howling crazy man
Your limbs were fast confined.
How then you strove and shrieked aloud,
Your bones and sinews bared;
And fiendish on the gazing crowd,
With burning eye-balls glared--
And begged, and swore, and wept and prayed
With maniac laught[ter?] joined--
How fearful were those signs displayed
By pangs that killed thy mind!
And when at length, tho' drear and long,
Time smoothed thy fiercer woes,
How plaintively thy mournful song
Upon the still night rose.
I've heard it oft, as if I dreamed,
Far distant, sweet, and lone--
The funeral dirge, it ever seemed
Of reason dead and gone.
To drink it's strains, I've stole away,
All stealthily and still,
Ere yet the rising God of day
Had streaked the Eastern hill.
Air held his breath; trees, with the spell,
Seemed sorrowing angels round,
Whose swelling tears in dew-drops fell
Upon the listening ground.
But this is past; and nought remains,
That raised thee o'er the brute.
Thy piercing shrieks, and soothing strains,
Are like, forever mute.
Now fare thee well--more thou the cause,
Than subject now of woe.
All mental pangs, by time's kind laws,
Hast lost the power to know.
O death! Thou awe-inspiring prince,
That keepst the world in fear;
Why dost thos tear more blest ones hence,
And leave him ling'ring here?

If I get a chance to bargain
Will ask the Almighty again;
‘O God! If thy really could
Give me back my childhood.
I want back my those days,
Innocent acts and plays,
Tricky games and cycle race,
Showing friends masked face,
Digging pits in soil of land,
Drawing sketches in the sand,
Running after the butterflies,
Watching planes in the sky,
Playing  with  the  puppy,
In parties becoming happy,
Hopping  in  the  streets
Going   to  buy   sweets,
Doing things not known to me,
At times crawling on knees,
After school watching cartoons,
Little sleeps in the afternoons,
Doing independent activities,
Free from all responsibilities,
Free from all kind of tensions,
Asking confound questions.’
Childhood is morning of life
From here life begins thrive;
No hardness, no tough heat,
Childhood is innocent n neat.
‘Return my childhood,
O God! if thy could.’
(c)  S. D. Tiwari

I gotta play by myself today
cause Mommy is cleaning and mopping.
Then she’ll be calling a sitter
for when she goes grocery shopping.
The sitter, she’s really boring.
She’s always on the dumb phone,
or painting her nails or combing her hair
so I guess I’ll be playing alone …
I think I will get out my play dough
and make a spaghetti pie.
Or maybe, I'll feed all my dollies
so they won't be fussy and cry.
At two, I’ll watch my TV shows.
Till then, I'll build with my blocks.
When I'm done, I'll pick them all up
(if I can get 'em all back in the box) .
Maybe after, my secret friend and I
will draw a picture or two
with all my favorite crayons,
specially the reds greens and blues.
I really like my toys and games
and my other good stuff … but gee,
I think ALL playing is funner
when Mommy is here beside me.

Those pesky barking spiders
followed me to church Sunday.
I tried to make them stay at home,
but they came anyway.
Then I did something naughty
'cause they were being bad.
When people turned and looked at me,
- I pointed at my dad.

I cry when I am hurting
and sometimes when I'm sad.
I cry when I get punished
'cause I've done something bad.
I cry when I am angry
(that means when I'm mad) ,
but grownups sure are funny...
Mommy cries when she is glad.

God has pity on kindergarten children,
He pities school children -- less.
But adults he pities not at all.
He abandons them,
And sometimes they have to crawl on all fours
In the scorching sand
To reach the dressing station,
Streaming with blood.
But perhaps
He will have pity on those who love truly
And take care of them
And shade them
Like a tree over the sleeper on the public bench.
Perhaps even we will spend on them
Our last pennies of kindness
Inherited from mother,
So that their own happiness will protect us
Now and on other days.

listen children
keep this in the place
you have for keeping
always
keep it all ways
we have never hated black
listen
we have been ashamed
hopeless tired mad
but always
all ways
we loved us
we have always loved each other
children all ways
pass it on

My friend, Sherla, was hard to see
for Mom and Dad, not me.
My imaginary friend was all I had.
I’m an only child, you see.
Most times Sherla was really good.
We did puzzles, read, and played.
We made our beds and cleaned our room
ALMOST every single day.
But sometimes Sherla spilled my milk,
sometimes she wrote on walls,
sometimes she told me not to come
when Mom and Daddy called.
I had to have a talk with her
about being a naughty kid,
cause I’m the one who got time out
for all the things she did.
It’s different now, I go to school
and I have friends everywhere.
Sherla doesn’t come here now
and I thought I she didn’t care.
Mom told me Sherla’s ‘special’
cause only I could see,
but now she lives with someone else
who needs her more than me.

Accursed from their birth they be
Who seek to find monogamy,
Pursuing it from bed to bed-
I think they would be better dead.

For those that never know the light,
The darkness is a sullen thing;
And they, the Children of the Night,
Seem lost in Fortune's winnowing.
But some are strong and some are weak, --
And there's the story. House and home
Are shut from countless hearts that seek
World-refuge that will never come.
And if there be no other life,
And if there be no other chance
To weigh their sorrow and their strife
Than in the scales of circumstance,
'T were better, ere the sun go down
Upon the first day we embark,
In life's imbittered sea to drown,
Than sail forever in the dark.
But if there be a soul on earth
So blinded with its own misuse
Of man's revealed, incessant worth,
Or worn with anguish, that it views
No light but for a mortal eye,
No rest but of a mortal sleep,
No God but in a prophet's lie,
No faith for "honest doubt" to keep;
If there be nothing, good or bad,
But chaos for a soul to trust, --
God counts it for a soul gone mad,
And if God be God, He is just.
And if God be God, He is Love;
And though the Dawn be still so dim,
It shows us we have played enough
With creeds that make a fiend of Him.
There is one creed, and only one,
That glorifies God's excellence;
So cherish, that His will be done,
The common creed of common sense.
It is the crimson, not the gray,
That charms the twilight of all time;
It is the promise of the day
That makes the starry sky sublime;
It is the faith within the fear
That holds us to the life we curse; --
So let us in ourselves revere
The Self which is the Universe!
Let us, the Children of the Night,
Put off the cloak that hides the scar!
Let us be Children of the Light,
And tell the ages what we are!

Jaya Surya
GOLDEN sun of victory, born
In my life's unclouded morn,
In my lambent sky of love,
May your growing glory prove
Sacred to your consecration,
To my heart and to my nation.
Sun of victory, may you be
Sun of song and liberty.
Padmaja
Lotus-maiden, you who claim
All the sweetness of your name,
Lakshmi, fortune's queen, defend you,
Lotus-born like you, and send you
Balmy moons of love to bless you,
Gentle joy-winds to caress you.
Lotus-maiden, may you be
Fragrant of all ecstasy.
Ranadheera
Little lord of battle, hail
In your newly-tempered mail!
Learn to conquer, learn to fight
In the foremost flanks of right,
Like Valmiki's heroes bold,
Rubies girt in epic gold.
Lord of battle, may you be,
Lord of love and chivalry.
Lilamani
Limpid jewel of delight
Severed from the tender night
Of your sheltering mother-mine,
Leap and sparkle, dance and shine,
Blithely and securely set
In love's magic coronet.
Living jewel, may you be
Laughter-bound and sorrow-free.

Oh Christmas tree, Oh Christmas tree.
Lush, green ambiance standing before me.
Mesmerized by childhood memories.
I smile and ponder of which I see.
Oh Christmas tree, Oh Christmas tree,
That precious time of year upon us,
to embrace our family and friends.
To share, care and make amends.
Oh Christmas tree, Oh Christmas tree.
The time to think of Jesus Christ,
what his life for all has given.
Rejoice, praise, worship and sing.
His Father in heaven is our true King.
Oh Christmas tree, Oh Christmas tree.
Away you’ll go for another year,
With glowing memories packed inside.
Fresh in our minds, we shall not hide.
Our living savior, Jesus Christ.
Gives much love, and an abundance of pride.
Written:  Dec.2/06

IT was the calm and silent night!
Seven hundred years and fifty-three
Had Rome been growing up to might,
And now was Queen of land and sea.
No sound was heard of clashing wars;
Peace brooded o’er the hush’d domain;
Apollo, Pallas, Jove and Mars,
Held undisturb’d their ancient reign,
In the solemn midnight
Centuries ago.
’T was in the calm and silent night!
The senator of haughty Rome
Impatient urged his chariot’s flight,
From lordly revel rolling home.
Triumphal arches gleaming swell
His breast with thoughts of boundless sway;
What reck’d the Roman what befell
A paltry province far away,
In the solemn midnight
Centuries ago!
Within that province far away
Went plodding home a weary boor:
A streak of light before him lay,
Fall’n through a half-shut stable door
Across his path. He pass’d—for nought
Told what was going on within;
How keen the stars! his only thought;
The air how calm and cold and thin,
In the solemn midnight
Centuries ago!
O strange indifference!—low and high
Drows’d over common joys and cares:
The earth was still—but knew not why;
The world was listening—unawares.
How calm a moment may precede
One that shall thrill the world for ever!
To that still moment none would heed,
Man’s doom was link’d, no more to sever,
In the solemn midnight
Centuries ago.
It is the calm and solemn night!
A thousand bells ring out, and throw
Their joyous peals abroad, and smite
The darkness, charm’d and holy now.
The night that erst no name had worn,
To it a happy name is given;
For in that stable lay new-born
The peaceful Prince of Earth and Heaven,
In the solemn midnight
Centuries ago.

In the darkness of the winter
in the evening of the day
Bethlehem was full of wonder
tears of truth you heard them say
in a manger in a stable
at the feet where Mary lay
choirs of Angels started singing
Christ lives on, it's christmas day
Wise men cried he is the saviour
stars were shining clear and bright
heralds spread the birth of Jesus
people came from far and wide
gifts of joy the people praised him
tears of grace you heard them pray
Angels singing in the heavens
Christ lives on, it's christmas day
Hallelujah bells are ringing
hallelujah it's today
we'll rejoice in all the pleasure
as he washed our sins away
we'll take love and understanding
faith and hope and charity
tell the children of the future
Christ lives on, it's christmas day.

Alone--with one fair star for company,
The loveliest star among the hosts of night,
While the grey tide ebbs with the ebbing light--
I pace along the darkening wintry sea.
Now round the yule-log and the glittering tree
Twinkling with festive tapers, eyes as bright
Sparkle with Christmas joys and young delight,
As each one gathers to his family.
But I--a waif on earth where'er I roam--
Uprooted with life's bleeding hopes and fears
From that one heart that was my heart's sole home,
Feel the old pang pierce through the severing years,
And as I think upon the years to come
That fair star trembles through my falling tears.

christmas list
and christmas wish
all apart of the christmas theme
without any of it its like there is no meaning
but im here to tell
im here to yell
that christmas is not all about you
christmas she get you in the spirit for what you need to do
help the poor
help the needy
help the ones that dont get this or that
help the ones that have that and this
christmas is not all about you
if i need to yell or scream
to tell you what christmas means
i will
i promise
because christmas is not all about me
its not all about you
just what you need to do

It seems the theme this yuletide.
As thought up by some folks,
Is "Let's keep Christ in Christmas",
Say, are they making jokes?
I've always thought from childhood,
That this was his birth date,
Or so that's why my mother said,
Our folks did celebrate,
Am I all wrong? Is this all new?
Or are we coming back,
From down the road where we turned off,
And maybe lost some track.
I find that if I close my mind,
To worldly pleasures here,
That Christ IS Christmas all the time,
Each day throughout each year.
But if by chance you've lost your way,
Then wash the slate up clean,
Give credit to those folks who thought,
Of this years, "Yuletide theme."
But when all of this is over,
And yuletide lights go out,
Let's NOT keep CHRIST in Christmas,
But each day from here on out.

Father calls me William, sister calls me Will,
Mother calls me Willie, but the fellers call me Bill!
Mighty glad I ain't a girl - ruther be a boy,
Without them sashes, curls, an' things that's worn by Fauntleroy!
Love to chawnk green apples an' go swimmin' in the lake -
Hate to take the castor-ile they give for bellyache!
'Most all the time, the whole year round, there ain't no flies on me,
But jest 'fore Christmas I'm as good as I kin be!
Got a yeller dog named Sport, sick him on the cat;
First thing she knows she doesn't know where she is at!
Got a clipper sled, an' when us kids goes out to slide,
'Long comes the grocery cart, an' we all hook a ride!
But sometimes when the grocery man is worrited an' cross,
He reaches at us with his whip, an' larrups up his hoss,
An' then I laff an' holler, "Oh, ye never teched me!"
But jest 'fore Christmas I'm as good as I kin be!
Gran'ma says she hopes that when I git to be a man,
I'll be a missionarer like her oldest brother, Dan,
As was et up by the cannibuls that lives in Ceylon's Isle,
Where every prospeck pleases, an' only man is vile!
But gran'ma she has never been to see a Wild West show,
Nor read the Life of Daniel Boone, or else I guess she'd know
That Buff'lo Bill an' cow-boys is good enough for me!
Excep' jest 'fore Christmas, when I'm good as I kin be!
And then old Sport he hangs around, so solemn-like an' still,
His eyes they seem a-sayin': "What's the matter, little Bill?"
The old cat sneaks down off her perch an' wonders what's become
Of them two enemies of hern that used to make things hum!
But I am so perlite an' 'tend so earnestly to biz,
That mother says to father: "How improved our Willie is!"
But father, havin' been a boy hisself, suspicions me
When, jest 'fore Christmas, I'm as good as I kin be!
For Christmas, with its lots an' lots of candies, cakes, an' toys,
Was made, they say, for proper kids an' not for naughty boys;
So wash yer face an' bresh yer hair, an' mind yer p's and q's,
An' don't bust out yer pantaloons, and don't wear out yer shoes;
Say "Yessum" to the ladies, an' "Yessur" to the men,
An' when they's company, don't pass yer plate for pie again;
But, thinkin' of the things yer'd like to see upon that tree,
Jest 'fore Christmas be as good as yer kin be!

And wilt thou hear the fevered heart
To Thee in silence cry?
And as th' inconstant wildfires dart
Out of the restless eye,
Wilt thou forgive the wayward though
By kindly woes yet half untaught
A Saviours right, so dearly bought,
That Hope should never die?
Thou wilt:  for many a languid prayer
Has reached Thee from the wild,
Since the lorn mother, wandering there,
Cast down her fainting child,
Then stole apart to weep and die,
Nor knew an angel form was nigh,
To show soft waters gushing by,
And dewy shadows mild.
Thou wilt--for Thou art Israel's God,
And Thine unwearied arm
Is ready yet with Moses' rod,
The hidden rill to charm
Out of the dry unfathomed deep
Of sands, that lie in lifeless sleep,
Save when the scorching whirlwinds heap
Their waves in rude alarm.
These moments of wild wrath are Thine -
Thine, too, the drearier hour
When o'er th' horizon's silent line
Fond hopeless fancies cower,
And on the traveller's listless way
Rises and sets th' unchanging day,
No cloud in heaven to slake its ray,
On earth no sheltering bower.
Thou wilt be there, and not forsake,
To turn the bitter pool
Into a bright and breezy lake,
This throbbing brow to cool:
Till loft awhile with Thee alone
The wilful heart be fain to own
That He, by whom our bright hours shone,
Our darkness best may rule.
The scent of water far away
Upon the breeze is flung;
The desert pelican to-day
Securely leaves her young,
Reproving thankless man, who fears
To journey on a few lone years,
Where on the sand Thy step appears,
Thy crown in sight is hung.
Thou, who did sit on Jacob's well
The weary hour of noon,
The languid pulses Thou canst tell,
The nerveless spirit tune.
Thou from Whose cross in anguish burst
The cry that owned Thy dying thirst,
To Thee we turn, our Last and First,
Our Sun and soothing Moon.
From darkness, here, and dreariness
We ask not full repose,
Only be Thou at hand, to bless
Our trial hour of woes.
Is not the pilgrim's toil o'erpaid
By the clear rill and palmy shade?
And see we not, up Earth's dark glade,
The gate of Heaven unclose?

'Glory to God in the highest
And on earth peace good will toward men'
Born unto a virgin was God's only begotten Son
Emmanuel (God with us)   is the title of The One
Mary's father was of Judah, the linage of a king
Mary's mother was a Levite, from Aaron's priestly string
The world beheld a brilliant star a shining in the east
The sign of Christ, The King of Kings, Lord of Lords, and High Priest
'Glory to God in the highest
And on earth peace good will toward men'
Shepherds in the field keeping watch over their flock at night
The angel of the Lord appeared and gave them such a fright
'Fear not: for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy'
For unto you is born this day, a Saviour, Christ the Roi
The Babe is wrapped in swaddling clothes, a lying in the hay
Heavenly host gave praise to God on the greatest birthday
'Glory to God in the highest
And on earth peace good will toward men'
(Luke 1: 5-36,2: 6-14,3: 23-38)
© 2011

Like a broken Cinderella,
She turns in the jewellery box,
There is no exit, no escape, no hope,
And she is hanging from a noose rope.
Broken Cinderella, broken Cinderella,
You're over; a broken record,
That cannot play, pain here to stay,
No prettiness to escape to,
No moving forward, only moving back,
Trapped, dead, deceased, over and broken,
With a torn dress, a torn gown,
That is ripped at the seams,
Ripped in her agony, she searches,
But can find no one with a solution.
Her shoes, long since worn out,
Leave her walking a lonely road,
Almost crawling on the ground,
Her heart an empty, cold stone,
With many heavy stones in the load.
She wishes for mercy from the hot sun,
She wished for mercy from the cold snow,
Where is the window? she asks,
Where is my future? A broken Cinderella,
Broken, down and out,
Living all by herself,
With no helping hand,
With no friend or stranger to understand.
And she yearns to be fixed,
She hopes to replace those bricks,
That will make her a new home,
A world where her heart carries no stone,
And leaves her to fly in the blue sky,
Her wings carrying her,
From the unforgiving ground.

Behold the beauteous maiden... ill-fitted to those rags...
And quite often heavy laden... as on and on life drags...
Yet despite her heart now broken... by others and their spite,
All her sighs were gently spoken... though she still prayed each night...
For sorrows had not crushed her soul... nor tempered female dreams...
Nor overcome her self-control... as others planned their schemes...
She scrubbed the floors, watched others smile... and took life in her stride...
As if she sought to pass each trial... with gratitude not pride...
For she was not the owner here... and that she knew full well...
The others made that crystal clear... what more was there to tell?
But Fate is known to intervene... to lend a helping hand...
Arranging things as yet unseen... with purposes still planned...
And so it was, one night love came... when she went to a ball...
The Prince's heart no more the same... she was his miracle...
When found at home, his heart was glad... his love he could not hide...
With Cinderella no more sad... the day she was his bride...
Denis Martindale March 2019.

You always read about it:
the plumber with the twelve children
who wins the Irish Sweepstakes.
From toilets to riches.
That story.
Or the nursemaid,
some luscious sweet from Denmark
who captures the oldest son's heart.
from diapers to Dior.
That story.
Or a milkman who serves the wealthy,
eggs, cream, butter, yogurt, milk,
the white truck like an ambulance
who goes into real estate
and makes a pile.
From homogenized to martinis at lunch.
Or the charwoman
who is on the bus when it cracks up
and collects enough from the insurance.
From mops to Bonwit Teller.
That story.
Once
the wife of a rich man was on her deathbed
and she said to her daughter Cinderella:
Be devout. Be good. Then I will smile
down from heaven in the seam of a cloud.
The man took another wife who had
two daughters, pretty enough
but with hearts like blackjacks.
Cinderella was their maid.
She slept on the sooty hearth each night
and walked around looking like Al Jolson.
Her father brought presents home from town,
jewels and gowns for the other women
but the twig of a tree for Cinderella.
She planted that twig on her mother's grave
and it grew to a tree where a white dove sat.
Whenever she wished for anything the dove
would dropp it like an egg upon the ground.
The bird is important, my dears, so heed him.
Next came the ball, as you all know.
It was a marriage market.
The prince was looking for a wife.
All but Cinderella were preparing
and gussying up for the event.
Cinderella begged to go too.
Her stepmother threw a dish of lentils
into the cinders and said: Pick them
up in an hour and you shall go.
The white dove brought all his friends;
all the warm wings of the fatherland came,
and picked up the lentils in a jiffy.
No, Cinderella, said the stepmother,
you have no clothes and cannot dance.
That's the way with stepmothers.
Cinderella went to the tree at the grave
and cried forth like a gospel singer:
Mama! Mama! My turtledove,
send me to the prince's ball!
The bird dropped down a golden dress
and delicate little slippers.
Rather a large package for a simple bird.
So she went. Which is no surprise.
Her stepmother and sisters didn't
recognize her without her cinder face
and the prince took her hand on the spot
and danced with no other the whole day.
As nightfall came she thought she'd better
get home. The prince walked her home
and she disappeared into the pigeon house
and although the prince took an axe and broke
it open she was gone. Back to her cinders.
These events repeated themselves for three days.
However on the third day the prince
covered the palace steps with cobbler's wax
and Cinderella's gold shoe stuck upon it.
Now he would find whom the shoe fit
and find his strange dancing girl for keeps.
He went to their house and the two sisters
were delighted because they had lovely feet.
The eldest went into a room to try the slipper on
but her big toe got in the way so she simply
sliced it off and put on the slipper.
The prince rode away with her until the white dove
told him to look at the blood pouring forth.
That is the way with amputations.
They just don't heal up like a wish.
The other sister cut off her heel
but the blood told as blood will.
The prince was getting tired.
He began to feel like a shoe salesman.
But he gave it one last try.
This time Cinderella fit into the shoe
like a love letter into its envelope.
At the wedding ceremony
the two sisters came to curry favor
and the white dove pecked their eyes out.
Two hollow spots were left
like soup spoons.
Cinderella and the prince
lived, they say, happily ever after,
like two dolls in a museum case
never bothered by diapers or dust,
never arguing over the timing of an egg,
never telling the same story twice,
never getting a middle-aged spread,
their darling smiles pasted on for eternity.
Regular Bobbsey Twins.
That story.

She takes in a breath as the roaring sun sets
And watch shadows fade into faint silhouettes
The smell of melted pink candles filled the air
As she sat beside Zeus in His mighty chair
The burning cold air caressed her long, black hair
Unraveling a night so mysteriously fair
As she takes a last sip from her iced champagne
She felt the forsaken blood run through her vein
Foolishly struggling and trying to keep sane
From all the anxiousness it cannot contain
She will try to set her tainted spirit free
She will try to find the secret garden's key
And sail briskly amidst the Aegean sea
Though trapped within William Shakespeare's tragedy
~ming

Descend from the foothill and don't you feel the humidity?
Dew drops scattered all over the meadow as pearls.
Give me your hand; hand-in-hand we can pick them before the sun rise.
The flowers forget-me-knots & chrysanthemums were in bloom next to Midwife's yard.
Do not forget to bring your cane basket.
Hand-in-hand; we can collect them before the sunrise.
Please bring your home work book too,
On the way we can do some corrections & fill in the blanks
In the moonlight before the teacher comes.
Cinderella, please give my lost childhood.

Amidst a darkened night
lay a dreadful sight,
inside a pumpkin;
she made her home.
Abandoned by her family
a stray in society.
She wears a torn, blue dress
her body- now straw
with stiches tearing apart her sides.
Once she was beautiful,
a prince would marry her any day.
But poor Cinder's never got the chance
Cinderella missed the dance.
Her fairy god mother was a deceiver
now only a rat would kiss her.
Her glass slippers full of cracks
her smile is cracked.
She missed the deadline as the clock struck ten.
Cinder's thought she had till twelve,
but the doors where closed, of the house she used to call home.
Her  eye's turned to buttons, all on their own
Cinderella had the pay the price.
So the fairy took her soul
she became a doll with a story- she was a so called fairy tale.
Used to wreak havoc on us humans and to manipulate our dreams.
-06/04/2015-

There I saw a beautiful girl
In the little street of the town
In shabby dressed, the girl seen
In speedy steps she was walking
But somewhere in fear she seemed
The time was evening nearing dark
The night was slowly taking place
The girl was in busy walk in street
The girl is beyond the reach of eye
Where I mistaken for cinderella the girl.

Don't be afraid of, cinderella
The girl of truth, and nicety
The little one, the joyful one
Where innocence in mind
Energetic in actions
Cinderella, the girl loved by all.
But poor cinderella the poor girl
The devils always followed her
Tried to do damages in full spirit
But her faith always stood with her
She got her prince the most loved one
The noble hearts always wins.

You seemed like a really good catch
until that night at your place
dollar store votive candles
boxed wine
and for dinner
frozen lasagna
you picked up at the drug store
when you got your industrial
size bottle of opiates
now my good catch
began to rot
Mom always told me about
how many
fish there where in
the sea
and I had to land you
the cheap
broke
slimy
bottom feeder
Mom also said it's just
as easy to fall in
love with a rich man
most millionaires
avoid cheap dates
dull and dusty
conversations
and dollar stores
So I dream of
my knight in
shining armor
and pray he
doesn't
rust before
I find him.
I'm suffering through
a Cinderella story
on hold.

in my heart
a river runs
alluvial, fishes,
leaves, flowers and all
a catfish winds
its way up to the surface
shows its pinkish whiskers
and round mouth
and down in a fleet second
puyu splash
their way down
after a fall
bubble, splash, bubble, splash,
big fish, small fish,
breakdance
down the river
their only way to show
joy and gratitude
for nature's care
like a gymnast
they turn their tails up
bend and sweep
the water swivels
and down they go
head plunging
the river a stage
of tail splashing game
how the world has changed since
thirty years the sweep of  a puyu's tail
i could still collect that childhood heart
that had gone afflutter
the river that has changed course
to run through my heart
calming nerves and evoking childhood joy
the river now buried deep
in the town's memory
the river now imprisoned
caged between cement walls
no more fishes, no more splashdance, breakdance
red water, blooms and leaves!
the river that now only has me as its fish
splashing every now and then
to let its sweetness flow forth
the river now buried deep in the earth
in the city's mind
inspired by
A Brook In The City
The farmhouse lingers, though averse to square
With the new city street it has to wear
A number in. But what about the brook
That held the house as in an elbow-crook?
I ask as one who knew the brook, its strength
And impulse, having dipped a finger length
And made it leap my knuckle, having tossed
A flower to try its currents where they crossed.
The meadow grass could be cemented down
From growing under pavements of a town;
The apple trees be sent to hearth-stone flame.
Is water wood to serve a brook the same?
How else dispose of an immortal force
No longer needed? Staunch it at its source
With cinder loads dumped down? The brook was thrown
Deep in a sewer dungeon under stone
In fetid darkness still to live and run -
And all for nothing it had ever done
Except forget to go in fear perhaps.
No one would know except for ancient maps
That such a brook ran water. But I wonder
If from its being kept forever under,
The thoughts may not have risen that so keep
This new-built city from both work and sleep.
Robert Frost

I have read, in some old, marvellous tale,
Some legend strange and vague,
That a midnight host of spectres pale
Beleaguered the walls of Prague.
Beside the Moldau's rushing stream,
With the wan moon overhead,
There stood, as in an awful dream,
The army of the dead.
White as a sea-fog, landward bound,
The spectral camp was seen,
And, with a sorrowful, deep sound,
The river flowed between.
No other voice nor sound was there,
No drum, nor sentry's pace;
The mist-like banners clasped the air,
As clouds with clouds embrace.
But when the old cathedral bell
Proclaimed the morning prayer,
The white pavilions rose and fell
On the alarmed air.
Down the broad valley fast and far
The troubled army fled;
Up rose the glorious morning star,
The ghastly host was dead.
I have read, in the marvellous heart of man,
That strange and mystic scroll,
That an army of phantoms vast and wan
Beleaguer the human soul.
Encamped beside Life's rushing stream,
In Fancy's misty light,
Gigantic shapes and shadows gleam
Portentous through the night.
Upon its midnight battle-ground
The spectral camp is seen,
And, with a sorrowful, deep sound,
Flows the River of Life between.
No other voice nor sound is there,
In the army of the grave;
No other challenge breaks the air,
But the rushing of Life's wave.
And when the solemn and deep churchbell
Entreats the soul to pray,
The midnight phantoms feel the spell,
The shadows sweep away.
Down the broad Vale of Tears afar
The spectral camp is fled;
Faith shineth as a morning star,
Our ghastly fears are dead.

CITY of ships!
(O the black ships! O the fierce ships!
O the beautiful, sharp-bow'd steam-ships and sail-ships!)
City of the world! (for all races are here;
All the lands of the earth make contributions here;)
City of the sea! city of hurried and glittering tides!
City whose gleeful tides continually rush or recede, whirling in and
out, with eddies and foam!
City of wharves and stores! city of tall façades of marble and iron!
Proud and passionate city! mettlesome, mad, extravagant city!
Spring up, O city! not for peace alone, but be indeed yourself,
warlike!                                                     10
Fear not! submit to no models but your own, O city!
Behold me! incarnate me, as I have incarnated you!
I have rejected nothing you offer'd me--whom you adopted, I have
adopted;
Good or bad, I never question you--I love all--I do not condemn
anything;
I chant and celebrate all that is yours--yet peace no more;
In peace I chanted peace, but now the drum of war is mine;
War, red war, is my song through your streets, O city!

Like a long arrow through the dark the train is darting,
Bearing me far away, after a perfect day of love's delight:
Wakeful with all the sad-sweet memories of parting,
I lift the narrow window-shade and look out on the night.
Lonely the land unknown, and like a river flowing,
Forest and field and hill are gliding backward still athwart my dream;
Till in that country strange, and ever stranger growing,
A magic city full of lights begins to glow and gleam.
Wide through the landscape dim the lamps are lit in millions;
Long avenues unfold clear-shining lines of gold across the green;
Clusters and rings of light, and luminous pavilions, --
Oh, who will tell the city's name, and what these wonders mean?
Why do they beckon me, and what have they to show me?
Crowds in the blazing street, mirth where the feasters meet, kisses and wine:
Many to laugh with me, but never one to know me:
A cityful of stranger-hearts and none to beat with mine!
Look how the glittering lines are wavering and lifting, --
Softly the breeze of night, scatters the vision bright: and, passing fair,
Over the meadow-grass and through the forest drifting,
The Fire-Fly City of the Dark is lost in empty air!
Girl of the golden eyes, to you my heart is turning:
Sleep in your quiet room, while through the midnight gloom my train is whirled.
Clear in your dreams of me the light of love is burning, --
The only never failing light in all the phantom world.

Las Vegas, Las Vegas, the city of dreams,
The city of triumph and utter disaster.
For you can win and gain a most vast amount,
But you can also loose without a count.
I advise you my friend, to watch yourself
With the up most of care and thought.
Stay away from the one arm bandits
And be careful of the thieves and
Hustlers which rob you in vain.
Stroll the streets for a meal which is cheap,
But I am sure sure that the food will be
Cut back, for then you will have more money
To play Black Jack.
I know that you cannot resist the temptation
Of having a bit of a gamble, but in order
To not appear like a spanner, be sure
To place your wages in a casual manner.
I am sure that the gambling will carry on
Throughout the dead of night, and no
one will stop your addiction, not even
Your wife!
So you are flat-broke and you are on your
Flight home, at least you have enjoyed
your time, but remember my friend, Las
Vegas is an ultimate unknown; for
It is the city of triumph and utter
Disaster.

Too old to carry arms and fight like the others -
they graciously gave me the inferior role of chronicler
I record - I don't know for whom - the history of the siege
I am supposed to be exact but I don't know when the invasion began
two hundred years ago in December in September perhaps yesterday at dawn
everyone here suffers from a loss of the sense of time
all we have left is the place the attachment to the place
we still rule over the ruins of temples spectres of gardens and houses
if we lose the ruins nothing will be left
I write as I can in the rhythm of interminable weeks
monday: empty storehouses a rat became the unit of currency
tuesday: the mayor murdered by unknown assailants
wednesday: negotiations for a cease-fire the enemy has imprisoned our messengers
we don't know where they are held that is the place of torture
thursday: after a stormy meeting a majority of voices rejected
the motion of the spice merchants for unconditional surrender
friday: the beginning of the plague saturday: our invincible defender
N.N. committed suicide sunday: no more water we drove back
an attack at the eastern gate called the Gate of the Alliance
all of this is monotonous I know it can't move anyone
I avoid any commentary I keep a tight hold on my emotions I write about the facts
only they it seems are appreciated in foreign markets
yet with a certain pride I would like to inform the world
that thanks to the war we have raised a new species of children
our children don’t like fairy tales they play at killing
awake and asleep they dream of soup of bread and bones
just like dogs and cats
in the evening I like to wander near the outposts of the city
along the frontier of our uncertain freedom.
I look at the swarms of soldiers below their lights
I listen to the noise of drums barbarian shrieks
truly it is inconceivable the City is still defending itself
the siege has lasted a long time the enemies must take turns
nothing unites them except the desire for our extermination
Goths the Tartars Swedes troops of the Emperor regiments of the Transfiguration
who can count them
the colours of their banners change like the forest on the horizon
from delicate bird's yellow in spring through green through red to winter's black
and so in the evening released from facts I can think
about distant ancient matters for example our
friends beyond the sea I know they sincerely sympathize
they send us flour lard sacks of comfort and good advice
they don’t even know their fathers betrayed us
our former allies at the time of the second Apocalypse
their sons are blameless they deserve our gratitude therefore we are grateful
they have not experienced a siege as long as eternity
those struck by misfortune are always alone
the defenders of the Dalai Lama the Kurds the Afghan mountaineers
now as I write these words the advocates of conciliation
have won the upper hand over the party of inflexibles
a normal hesitation of moods fate still hangs in the balance
cemeteries grow larger the number of defenders is smaller
yet the defence continues it will continue to the end
and if the City falls but a single man escapes
he will carry the City within himself on the roads of exile
he will be the City
we look in the face of hunger the face of fire face of death
worst of all - the face of betrayal
and only our dreams have not been humiliated

Beside the pounding cataracts
Of midnight streams unknown to us
'Tis builded in the leafless tracts
And valleys huge of Tartarus.
Lurid and lofty and vast it seems;
It hath no rounded name that rings,
But I have heard it called in dreams
The City of the End of Things.
Its roofs and iron towers have grown
None knoweth how high within the night,
But in its murky streets far down
A flaming terrible and bright
Shakes all the stalking shadows there,
Across the walls, across the floors,
And shifts upon the upper air
From out a thousand furnace doors;
And all the while an awful sound
Keeps roaring on continually,
And crashes in the ceaseless round
Of a gigantic harmony.
Through its grim depths re-echoing
And all its weary height of walls,
With measured roar and iron ring,
The inhuman music lifts and falls.
Where no thing rests and no man is,
And only fire and night hold sway;
The beat, the thunder and the hiss
Cease not, and change not, night nor day.
And moving at unheard commands,
The abysses and vast fires between,
Flit figures that with clanking hands
Obey a hideous routine;
They are not flesh, they are not bone,
They see not with the human eye,
And from their iron lips is blown
A dreadful and monotonous cry;
And whoso of our mortal race
Should find that city unaware,
Lean Death would smite him face to face,
And blanch him with its venomed air:
Or caught by the terrific spell,
Each thread of memory snapt and cut,
His soul would shrivel and its shell
Go rattling like an empty nut.
It was not always so, but once,
In days that no man thinks upon,
Fair voices echoed from its stones,
The light above it leaped and shone:
Once there were multitudes of men,
That built that city in their pride,
Until its might was made, and then
They withered age by age and died.
But now of that prodigious race,
Three only in an iron tower,
Set like carved idols face to face,
Remain the masters of its power;
And at the city gate a fourth,
Gigantic and with dreadful eyes,
Sits looking toward the lightless north,
Beyond the reach of memories;
Fast rooted to the lurid floor,
A bulk that never moves a jot,
In his pale body dwells no more,
Or mind or soul,—an idiot!
But sometime in the end those three
Shall perish and their hands be still,
And with the master's touch shall flee
Their incommunicable skill.
A stillness absolute as death
Along the slacking wheels shall lie,
And, flagging at a single breath,
The fires shall moulder out and die.
The roar shall vanish at its height,
And over that tremendous town
The silence of eternal night
Shall gather close and settle down.
All its grim grandeur, tower and hall,
Shall be abandoned utterly,
And into rust and dust shall fall
From century to century;
Nor ever living thing shall grow,
Nor trunk of tree, nor blade of grass;
No drop shall fall, no wind shall blow,
Nor sound of any foot shall pass:
Alone of its accursèd state,
One thing the hand of Time shall spare,
For the grim Idiot at the gate
Is deathless and eternal there.

What shall we do, my soul, to please the King?
Seeing he hath no pleasure in the dance,
And hath condemned the honeyed utterance
Of silver flutes and mouths made round to sing.
Along the wall red roses climb and cling,
And oh! my prince, lift up thy countenance,
For there be thoughts like roses that entrance
More than the languors of soft lute-playing.
Think how the hidden things that poets see
In amber eves or mornings crystalline,
Hide in the soul their constant quenchless light,
Till, called by some celestial alchemy,
Out of forgotten depths, they rise and shine
Like buried treasure on Midsummer night.

This city
Is vastly plagued with loneliness.
I’m looking for Van Morrison’s
Brown-eyed girl
And I cry at the sight
Of every ponytail.
I believe in a higher love
But everyone
Is too busy seeking
Money pursuits on glittering streets
Of superficiality.
Where is the delicate hand
That will hold mine and pray with me
By the mountain’s waterfall
Which weeps for genuine kindness?

20 seconds of courage is all we need to change the world. Maybe if we all had a little more courage the world would be a happier place.
20 seconds of courage is all we need to tell that someone what you feel for them
20 seconds of courage is all we need to have a happy life
20 seconds of courage is all we need to change the world.

baffled, where should i go?
used to be so strong.
used to know what's right from wrong.
gobbled the poison, fought my own premonitions.
how i stayed on track with my faith and my reasons.
The less traveled road is where I am on.
rough and narrow from dusk till dawn.
Stunned by an unforeseen path,
tempting beauty, an extremely fortuitous find..I'm distraught.
Bones shall rest in peace like a stone.
which one shall lead me to thy throne?
i hunger for an unfading glee,
suffocated by the air of melancholy.

COURAGE IS HOPE'S LAST FRIEND
Courage is Hope's last  friend
Against all the fear and failing that we know
The inevitable declines and losses of Old Age-
Courage alone
Indifferent to odds and probabilities
Scorning terrible certainties
Can lift us from Doom and Depression
To carrying on for those we love
With dignity
Through the difficult end.

courage gives you the strength to all weakenesses
courage gives you  a very postive look out on life
courage gives you the strength to move on when you dont know how too
courage what you have when someone tries to bring you down
courage is like a big strength you have to have it in order to live life

Courage is what it takes to stand up to others
Courage is what it takes to make your own decisions
Courage is what it takes to succeed
But it also takes courage to sit down and listen
It also takes courage to admit a loss
It will take courage to respect someone others don't
Courage is needed to withstand peer pressure
So what does this mean?
Courage is essential in your journey through life.

There were many who went in huddled procession,
They knew not whither;
But, at any rate, success or calamity
Would attend all in equality.
There was one who sought a new road.
He went into direful thickets,
And ultimately he died thus, alone;
But they said he had courage.

Give me the courage to seek the truth.
For often in its discovery, there
will be disappointment, pain and despair
© Joe Fazio

Brave Ben dreamt he was drowning in the sea
From killer waves, he struggled to be free
He woke up in fright
In the dead of the night
His wife asked- "What made you pee"

The least because he trembles to grey fear
That man should call courage to conquer fright,
Fine if a man at times should frightened be,
Not if he should flight from fear’s bleary blight,
Howso brave, a man needs courage no mean
To face, fight, and conquer what he does fear,
And he needs to fear first— courage to win,
That dwells yon fear, yet close enough and near.
King Odysseus, who this truth knew just fine,
Reasoned Achilles to fight the Trojan War:
If ye should fear no one, problem ‘tis thine,
Do keep fear close to thy courageous shore.
Ah, soothing most words these I’ve ever heard:
No man courageous is that hath ne’er feared.
______________________________________ __________________
1. The poem uses the dialogue of the movie, Troy. The words
used therein are: ‘You don’t fear anyone, that’s your problem.
Sometimes fear is useful’.
_____________________________________ ____________________
- Sonnets | 02.09.10 |

When I am crazy and insane
as said by the critics
how can I be a poet.
I do not know
how to praise God
God has not taught me
the language of praise
and pleasant words.
I do not fear my God unseen
I have not learnt how to fear
gods on earth
who loves death
instead of life.
Who loves people of power
hoping for a reward.
I prefer chain and punishment
instead of flowers
How can I be a poet of honour
when I am with undressed
and unhonoured people.
?????? ???? ??? ??? ????????
????? ???????? ????? ??? ????
?????? ? ?????
???? ?? ???? ??? ??? ?????
??? ?????? ???? ??? ???????
??????? ???? ??
???????? ????? ???????? ????
?????? ?????? ????? ?????? ???? ???????
?????? ?????? ??????? ?? ?????
????? ???????? ????????? ??? ?? ?????
?????? ?????? ???? ????????
???????
????????? ?????? ????
????? ???????? ??? ????????? ?????
?????? ????? ???? ????? ???
?????? ???? ??????? ??????? ????
??? ???? ??? ???????? ????
?????? ???? ? ???????????? ????

Crazy 'bout a Mercury
That's what Alan Jackson means
Willie Nelson and Sheryl Crowe
Are pimping new blue jeans
They must think we're idiots
And don't know how to think
Aerosmith is selling Buicks
Britney's telling me what to drink
Frank Sinatra wants me
To use my Visa card again
Chris Isaak thinks I need
Yet another Heineken
Lynyrd Skynyrd says Busch beer
Is what a simple man should find
Wait a minute...a simple man?
Is there any other kind?
Madonna knows which make-up
I should always use
The Beach Boys wanna send me
On a Carnival Cruise
Shania has a Chevy for me
Now her I'd like to please
Or buy an Apple computer
From the Black-Eyed Peas
Do these people use these products?
Do they even give a hoot?
Will they sell their songs to anyone?
Like a musical prostitute
You ought to use the stuff you're selling
Take the time to get to know 'em
Hmmm...I wonder if the Zoloft folks
Would want to buy a poem?

I got a friend,
who's not cruel
to the mirrors only,
but...
to me,
to my eyes,
to my soul,
and to my heart too
with sweet gestures
and killing smiles
like Mona Liza
© Afzal Shauq

I found that ivory image there
Dancing with her chosen youth,
But when he wound her coal-black hair
As though to strangle her, no scream
Or bodily movement did I dare,
Eyes under eyelids did so gleam;
Love is like the lion's tooth.
When She, and though some said she played
I said that she had danced heart's truth,
Drew a knife to strike him dead,
I could but leave him to his fate;
For no matter what is said
They had all that had their hate;
Love is like the lion's tooth.
Did he die or did she die?
Seemed to die or died they both?
God be with the times when I
Cared not a thraneen for what chanced
So that I had the limbs to try
Such a dance as there was danced -
Love is like the lion's tooth.

A guy came to me the other day saying some crazy stuff
He said he hate what  I do  and what i stand for, to not hit him was ruff
Why do people tend to not look from outside of the boots
I say they need to read a history book on american roots
Some of the comments I hear, I see people can be very crazy
They dont see the pride in the soldiers I fight with daily
Out here where Im at, we are all we got
Even tho we know americans back home got our back
I wish that guy could have seen the day a lil iraqi boy gave me a flower
He said thank you america for your courage and power
His english was kind of broken but I knew what he ment to say
We made it so at least that one lil boy can come back out and play
At my level we dont see saving the world
All we see is making a way for some little boy or little girl
So think twice when you approach me with somthing crazy to say
I fight for so much more than what you saw on the news today
So go have sweet dreams and sleep peaceful tonite
All will be secure, cause american soldiers will continue to fight

I made you crazy
I drove a man crazy
and yet I dont know how I made him crazy
it wasnt fair for him to be crazy
Im sorry for making you crazy
I wish I could take your place and I be crazy
tell me a way show me a way and make me crazy
my heart hurts cause I made my friend crazy
Please change I dont want you to be crazy
Someone help him, help him, he's crazy
take away his pain that made him crazy
I dont like how I made him crazy
I didnt do it on purpose, I didnt even know I was making him crazy
I wish I could take it all back and he leave me crazy

If the world was crazy, you know what I'd eat?
A big slice of soup and a whole quart of meat,
A lemonade sandwich, and then I might try
Some roasted ice cream or a bicycle pie,
A nice notebook salad, and underwear roast,
An omelet of hats and some crisp cardboard toast,
A thick malted milk made from pencils and daisies,
And that's what I'd eat if the world was crazy.
If the world was crazy, you know what I'd wear?
A chocolate suit and a tie of eclair,
Some marshmallow earmuffs, some licorice shoes,
And I'd read a paper of peppermint news.
I'd call the boys 'Suzy' and I'd call the girls 'Harry,'
I'd talk through my ears, and I always would carry
A paper unbrella for when it grew hazy
To keep in the rain, if the world was crazy.
If the world was crazy, you know what I'd do?
I'd walk on the ocean and swim in my shoe,
I'd fly through the ground and I'd skip through the air,
I'd run down the bathtub and bathe on the stair.
When I met somebody I'd say 'G'bye, Joe,'
And when I was leaving - then I'd say 'Hello.'
And the greatest of men would be silly and lazy
So I would be king... if the world was cazy.

How can you make me feel the worst I
have ever felt in my life and be the
same person that makes me feel
as though I own the world?
© Joe Fazio

Drooling mouth,
he dropped the juices so earthshaking,
so sweet, too wet and
made that tight, choking door open wide
for him to come momentous
and swallow, sip the juices out.
So sweet, so wet, the man turns delirious
and the woman is delighted.

Globalization.................................... ..............

Modern gadgets are eating away vitals of health;
Many have become victims of video games long!
One in England dies playing game for 12 hours
Though sitting in one place to do so before it!
Too much mental energy is needed to deal with it;
Otherwise one's energy will be sucked by gadget!
My eyes have become sensitive to TV tube rays;
So also Computer tube rays are v. bright to eyes!
These rays increase body heat heating eyes first;
Mental tiredness makes one unable to be creative!
I am a lover of Nature to enjoy its joy outside ever;
But to express our experience we approach PC!
Creative work indeed evolves better by this device;
But the gadget swallows up health to sickness ever!

~ Cell ~ Soul ~ Culture ~ [1+26 words poetry]
Ms. Nivedita
UK.
21 November 2012
Cell ~ Culture
Is mundane splendor.
Soul ~ Culture
Is self unfolder.
Discover Soul
In unique unison
With ev'ry being
Identify
E'er new Whole
Thro' wizardry of
Omnipresent oxyopia!
==
Glossary: Humbly given for what I tried to express: ~
[1] Oxyopia: Acute vision
~~~~~
Copyright reserved by author

We’re all lashed
to Cultural Helms
besodden
ingrained eyes
narrowed to squinty plane
seeing;
not seeing
only mine;
and not mine
blind.
Culture is the Gardener's Death
who’s kind to only one flower;
other's bloom in the garden darkened
by blindness over-powered.
Strain some may
against the mast
yet they most times
cultivate only their own gardens;
time and the past
cause other flowers
to bloom and wither
before our very countenance.
Tempted we may be
by soul's desire
to look beyond the garden walls:
But few cannot,
but lift the spade
and plow the same furrows,
which etch our brow
contain our lives
until our death
we having known
only one garden flower:
grown beautifully
in straight
and narrow furrows.
A few sometimes
smell other blooms
thereby open up
genius
which is
simply
being willing
to sip and know
Not Like We-Ness.

I know its summer,
But all i can think is fall.
In the yard there is no lumber,
And on the trees the leaves are there in all.
All i see are fallen leaves:
Of yellow, orange, and red.
Yet the wind never heaves
And the birds still aren't fed
School isn't in yet
But it's just round the corner,
So I have a lot to fret
At the school where I'll be a foreigner.
I feel the rush,
And all the kids in the hall,
A pretty girl with a brush
And a nerd about to fall.
Sitting all alone,
Surrounded by strangers
I'm not accident prone,
Yet all around dangers
Not a familiar face in sight,
Or an inside joke to tell,
I look everywhere and see fright
All people have are lies to sell.
They feed off fear.
And inhale the pain.
They give you an evil lear.
Say your resilience is in vain.
No sympathaty at all,
Or even mercy,
Although I stand tall
But they're all bloodthirsty.
They look at me and whisper,
Ugly things they say.
Hatred inside her
I try to say I'm okay.
Power in numbers,
Yet im all alone.
While the great beast slumbers,
I look at my phone.
Nothing.
Its the way it is.
Coping.
But I still fizz.

Interest born of curiosity kindles love of all subjects
To have deep knowledge to know whole and ultimate truth;
That's human culture helping harmonious self development!
Human culture promotes love of arts, science, literature,
history, poetry and philosophy to have complete education
Leading to spiritual fulfilment in Nature to enjoy bliss!
Knowledge of Self, world, Nature and Universe so gained
By love leads to the clear understanding of ultimate one
Revealing the beginning and end in one all pervading God!
Love and knowledge give perfection and freedom to one to
Enjoy happiness by communion of mind with Nature to feel
Heavenly bliss and peace with satisfaction in human life!
Mind and heart in union by love makes it joyful to indulge
In spiritual pursuit of ultimate reality of Universal Spirit!

When I have returned to dust,
recall me, but not the genuine me;
no, leave that shrinking, purple-
prosing violet be. Instead visit
the giddy governess of Cagliari,
permit her pie-eyes to expound
upon our bacchic escapades,
my shelfworn banalities
and grey-whiskered anecdotes.
She'll recount in platitudes with her
characteristic twists on them.
Arouse my drinking buddies
to spew about my pseudo-impressions.
Dig up the groundskeeper
and he'll likely kick up the dust
of how we conversed on a daily basis.
Let everyone know how I pretended
to enjoy the company of that charlatan
novelist who resided down the street.
But most importantly, tell them
about the overzealous scarecrow
attendants during Long Beach
retreats with accents as flat as tortillas,
tailored in high-strung fashions, relating
all those Sunday afternoons that I
compared notes with the likes
of Leonard Cohen, John Updike,
S. J. Perelman, and Groucho Marx
at the famous Chelsea Hotel.
Speak about my wild, unkempt
hair, garish garb and ecclectic
taste in music and art; however,
never mention in Montréal nor
in Athens that you annoyed me
on more than one occasion
with your sycophantic behaviour,
so I repeatedly kicked your shin..
When I have indeed departed,
far beyond all this earthly misery,
allow just about anything to be
said, everything  except the truth.
No one ever got to know the real me.
I was the jester of no one.
Delinquency gave me daring
on the wrong side of forty-five,
and cowardice in my greener days.
rev.02/07/08

Peeps peep on pop and culture.
People peep on pop and culture.
There's a peep on pop and culture,
With not a poop to stop.
They peep on pop and culture.
People peep on pop and culture.
There is a peep on pop and culture,
Without a poop to stop.
Lady Gaga got that pop.
People peep on pop and culture.
Taylor Swift's got Country Rock.
People peep on pop and culture.
And Kanye's a social poppa.
People peep on pop and culture.
With Beyonce and Jay-Z,
Seen on top in magazines.
Peeps peep on pop and culture.
People peep on pop and culture.
There's a peep on pop and culture,
With no poop to stop.
Peeps peep on pop and culture.
People peep on pop and culture.
There's a peep on pop and culture,
With no poop to stop.
We feed on Beatles.
Those songs of Beatles.
We feed on Beatles.
And...
Prince is there with beats.
And Michael Jackson's Pop is sweet.
We feed on Beatles.
Those songs of Beatles.
We feed on Beatles.
And Lady Gaga just rocks.
We feed on Beatles.
And they introduced this culture shock.
Peeps peep on pop and culture.
People peep on pop and culture.
There's a peep on pop and culture,
With not a poop to stop.

The Indian culture is very sound,
it is based upon the family background.
The bond of their relationship is such found,
that we can smell the presence like the hounds.
The Indian families are generally spiritual,
living in a joint family is traditional.
Love among each other is proportional,
the partition of property makes them emotional.
The support of the members is generous,
their affection towards us is precious,
their devotion towards us is fabulous,
these things make me feel very specious.
The strength of the family can even fight with the tide,
where sadness goes away and hide.
Where even obstacles give them the side,
being the member of such a family is my pride.

One Two Three Four
One Two Three Four
Forwards. Sideways.
Sideways. Back...
Victor Sylvester, Victor Sylvester,
I thought of you yester-
day, white tie and tails,
trousers as tight
as a ball without a ballroom,
Cuban Romeo moustache and
patent leather hair...
drumming out strict tempo
the tempo of our lives
learning to dance girlfriends
into bed or into wives...
do they still teach ballroom
to your hissing records,
down in Cheam or Purley,
head up, shiny shoes,
pressed tight, breast to breast,
adolescents wondering
if a jockstrap would be best?
now it's coming back, I see,
One Two One Two
swing her round and pronto,
but watch, don't dropp her onto
that shiny shellacked floor...
Ou sont les disques d'antan, je me demande?
....gone and played, the yesteryears..
our sweaty-sweet Sylvester years..
one two, one two,
our memory's locked embrace...

amber light
falling sand
dancers move
with efforless grace
afterwards
a lone dancer
rakes a spiral
to a Gregorian chant

Dance through life
Dance through time
Dance around the felings
You don't want to be mine
You are dancing through a world
You don't want to see
You are beating to a rhythm
That doesn't lift you free
From this headbang
You are performing
Slow down your pace
Recollect your mind
Stop all the things
You never wanted to find
Make peace with your song
Go ahead and dance away life
Find your true inside
And make peace with your strife
Dance around those feelings
Dance around the world
Dnace straight to your heart
And what you want to make yours.

did you leave me here alone
to face this world of emptiness
while i wanted to have the dance of love with you
did you leave me here alone
to face this silence
i wanted to whisper the song of love, into your ears
while my hands were dancing on your skin
feeling the warmth of your inside
did you leave me here alone
to face this dark night alone
while i need the candle of hope, burning
with  warmth and light
in our all cold and dark nights.

Dance with me
Take my hand  pull me close
caress my body with your
warm embrace
As the music plays
press your lips upon mine
Let the music take control
dance with  passion
As our body's become
entwine
Feel the fire of desire
that burns within
Move with the music
let it slowly guide
your hands
The  music controls
are bodies
Our passions begging
to be released
Will you dance with
me

autumn dance
a leaf drops,   spirals,
sommersaults on ground

...Deep in the after glow...
We swayed in the mid-night mist...
Totally enamoured in our Rainbow of love...
...Frozen in time is your kiss...
Four white roses all abloom
'Neath our summer shelter of romance...
Embrace we-'Our Together' Forever attitudes
...At home in one anothers arms...
...In the sands of Alkai Point, we dance...

Have you ever watched kids
On a merry-go-round?
Or listened to the rain
slapping on the ground?
Ever followed a butterfly's erratic flight?
Or gazed at the sun into the fading night?
You better slow down.
Don't dance so fast.
Time is short.
The music won't last.
Do you run through each day
On the fly?
When you ask How are you?
Do you hear the reply?
When the day is done
Do you lie in your bed
With the next hundred chores
Running through your head?
You'd better slow down
Don't dance so fast.
Time is short.
The music won't last.
Ever told your child,
We'll
do it tomorrow?
And in your haste,
Not see his sorrow?
Ever lost touch,
Let a good friendship die
Cause you never had time
To call and say, 'Hi'
You'd better slow down.
Don't dance so fast.
Time is short.
The music won't last.
When you run so fast to get somewhere
You miss half the fun of getting there.
When you worry and hurry through your day,
It is like an unopened gift....
Thrown away.
Life is not a race.
Do take it slower
Hear the
music
Before the song is over.

What do you think I saw to-day when I arose at dawn?
Blue Wrens and Yellow-tails dancing on the lawn!
Bobbing here, and bowing there, gossiping away,
And how I wished that you were there to see the merry play!
But you were snug abed, my boy, blankets to your chin,
Nor dreamed of dancing birds without or sunbeams dancing in.
Grey Thrush, he piped the tune for them. I peeped out through the glass
Between the window curtains, and I saw them on the grass -
Merry little fairy folk, dancing up and down,
Blue bonnet, yellow skirt, cloaks of grey and brown,
Underneath the wattle-tree, silver in the dawn,
Blue Wrens and Yellow-tails dancing on the lawn.

You think you can
Dance
Let me see your dance
Show me
Show me
Girl
Because I want to see your dance
I am ready for it

Come and play with me it whispers,
Its child like fingers clutching our own,
Come and play my game it pleads,
I will never leave you on your own,
I am not like the rest of humanity,
I am not fickle or consumed by worthless greed,
It entices us laughing sweetly in the night,
It chases us through the stars crying when we bleed,
Come and play with me it calls,
It runs on ahead playing a hungry little game,
It giggles in ecstasy as children run to it,
It wraps its arms around them staking its claim,
You are mine now, it tells the children,
You are my own flesh and blood,
Spread my message to the others of your kind,
Tell them it’s a reward for being good,
It claws at our skin, ripping away our flesh,
I like to play this game it laughs gaily,
I have new victims every night,
I birth new children daily,
It spreads its black wings towards the midnight sky,
It causes every murder while its eyes glint like a dying fire spark,
Go my children tell them to run,
Tell them to come and play in the dark…

I'm blinded
When I scream
As I tumble through the darkness
Of my dream
Lost and lonely
But nobody knows
I'm surrounded by pain
And I'm all alone
Frightened and afraid
Full of fear
I reach out to escape
My eyes open with tears

This poem bleeds dysfunctional desire,
Blood stains through the dirty streets
Mark the paths we trod,
Urban avenues of despair,
But I was still romantic for you,
Your thin unattractive body
And unwashed stringy blond hair,
Your ghost stare in the headlights’ glare,
Your wish to blend into streetlamps
Of non-existence,
Romantic for your perishing soul
Looking for a ride home from strangers
at 2: 00AM,
Something about drugs and tortured eyes
On a lost waif and her pointless life
Was registering as meaningful
In my dark poetic mind,
You offered me the best sex I could ever have,
But I thought, I better let it slide,
Just let you talk about it,
Not put those skinny bones to the test,
Not be one more creep killing a girl
And getting a disease.

As his mind weaves
A spiderweb on the wall
Of his heart
I silently watch
Bemused
Admiring the intricate web
So light
Beguiling in its softness
And watch the hovering bees
Slowly becoming a prisoner
Caught in its beauty
And
The spider mind
Already moved
To a new wall
To make
Its next masterpiece

I felt her smile like the rays of the sun
approaching me I almost felt she would run
calling my name with a pleasuring glee
excitingly glorious she came to me
We talked and we laughed holding hands in the park
a crisp winters morning we felt the ice crack
old friends and old lovers like we just met
remembering times we could never forget
Back in our teens we ran wild through the streets
with friends in a gang and the world at our feet
mischief and trouble were things we knew well
trust was a byword for love that we felt
We became closer and needed more time
exploring emotions we just had to find
that first teenage kiss in the dark alleyway
still with us eternal remembered today
The broken Coke sign flickering in the cafe
we nervously laughed as it flashed Cok each day
all through the winter we huddled and talked
encouraging moments that we couldn't stop
Our friends drifted off somewhere in the unknown
as we bonded closer in love on our own
enjoying the pleasures of body and mind
as teenagers do as they grow through that time
We tried to make plans for the future I guess
but we were just amateurs out of our depth
as the spring came it melted the snow and our dreams
and we stretched our wings seeking different things
Forty years on at the roadside cafe
the Coke sign still flickers as we nervously
smile at each other and remember the day
of that first teenage kiss in the dark alleyway.

Th'imprison'd winds slumber within their caves
Fast bound: the fickle vane, emblem of change,
Wavers no more, long-settling to a point.
All nature nodding seems compos'd: thick steams
From land, from flood up-drawn, dimming the day,
"Like a dark ceiling stand:" slow thro' the air
Gossamer floats, or stretch'd from blade to blade
The wavy net-work whitens all the field.
Push'd by the weightier atmosphere, up springs
The ponderous Mercury, from scale to scale
Mounting, amidst the Torricellian tube.
While high in air, and pois'd upon his wings
Unseen, the soft, enamour'd wood-lark runs
Thro' all his maze of melody; -- the brake
Loud with the black-bird's bolder note resounds.
Sooth'd by the genial warmth, the cawing rook
Anticipates the spring, selects her mate,
Haunts her tall nest-trees, and with sedulous care
Repairs her wicker eyrie, tempest torn.
The plough-man inly smiles to see upturn
His mellow glebe, best pledge of future crop:
With glee the gardener eyes his smoking beds:
E'en pining sickness feels a short relief.
The happy school-boy brings transported forth
His long-forgotten scourge, and giddy gig:
O'er the white paths he whirls the rolling hoop,
Or triumphs in the dusty fields of taw.
Not so the museful sage: -- abroad he walks
Contemplative, if haply he may find
What cause controuls the tempest's rage, or whence
Amidst the savage season winter smiles.
For days, for weeks, prevails the placid calm.
At length some drops prelude a change: the sun
With ray refracted bursts the parting gloom;
When all the chequer'd sky is one bright glare.
Mutters the wind at eve: th' horizon round
With angry aspect scowls: down rush the showers,
And float the delug'd paths, and miry fields.

A three-day-long rain from the east--
an terminable talking, talking
of no consequence--patter, patter, patter.
Hand in hand little winds
blow the thin streams aslant.
Warm. Distance cut off. Seclusion.
A few passers-by, drawn in upon themselves,
hurry from one place to another.
Winds of the white poppy! there is no escape!--
An interminable talking, talking,
talking . . .it has happened before.
Backward, backward, backward.

in a village
soldiers have hunted,
borne behind doors
that have been kicked open
to drain the blood and flesh
of its nutrients, its life,
has left me
in this home of captive breeding,
stripped in the buffer zone of womanhood.
But thinking
that on that day,
I could have also died by a bullet,
I crawled and crawled
away from that house
to the foot of a cypress,
as desperate as one was,
to be left for dead.
____________________
It's borne in that room
where one woman lies
in a marshland of linens, and bedsprings
that poke through the mattress
like stalks of cattail;
borne in a runoff
of placenta and amniotic fluid,
tainting her own milk and blood.
But on that day,
she had taken the infant
from her womb, brushed his head
with fingers as light as feathers,
and snapped it back
like the cattail dies back in autumn
with thousands of seeds
blown to the wind—
thousands more
than deemed too many.

o
Huge vapours brood above the clifted shore,
Night on the ocean settles dark and mute,
Save where is heard the repercussive roar
Of drowsy billows on the rugged foot
Of rocks remote; or still more distant tone
Of seamen in the anchored bark that tell
The watch relieved; or one deep voice alone
Singing the hour, and bidding "Strike the bell!"
All is black shadow but the lucid line
Marked by the light surf on the level sand,
Or where afar the ship-lights faintly shine
Like wandering fairy fires, that oft on land
Misled the pilgrim--such the dubious ray
That wavering reason lends in life's long darkling way.
o

At 15, taking a stroll with my mother
On a cool summer night after dinner,
Ma, one question always nags my mind
What is it she softly asked, my child?
How can one spend a life time with one man?
Doesn’t it get boring after a short span?
As we sat on the bench, she looked at me
Yes, it needs commitment we don’t foresee.
In the first flush of love when you are getting acquainted
You love everything as you are smitten and infatuated.
But slowly it begins to sink that nobody is perfect
We have feet of clay, disillusioned you come to accept.
But as you come to know each other better,
And are growing up and raising a family together.
You are overcome with love, respect and acceptance
And enjoy each other’s company even in silence.
Her words resound, although she is no more,
As I wait for my man to come through the door.
I owe her my life and celebrate each and everyday
To this day, she soothes and shows me the way.

She was seven feet tall,
with a seventeen shoe.
One eye was brown and the other blue.
Her hair was all the colours of the rainbow.
She had ruby red lips,
and a waxy complexion.
She looked like something,
the cat had dragged in,
after a bad night on the tiles.
She had a double chin,
that wobbled a bit.
Her nose looked like,
it was glued into place.
She had a pin in her ear
with a bell on the end.
It played a tune
whenever she did a whirl,
while doing the twist.
She was some girl and unfortunately for me.
She was my blind date you see.
I was glad when the evening was over,
and the band played the last tune.
I walked her home,
and watched her climb into her tomb.
We had so much fun,
scaring everyone out of their wits.
Next week we are going to do it all again.
Me and that girl, the daughter of Frank-enstein.
9 August 1995

My daughter said something the other day
We were sitting on the front steps, talking
Someone wanted to enter the building, she stood up and said 'we're just having a father daughter moment'
My daughter is still young, only 27
And hearing her say that, my heart swelled with pride
She still wants to have moments with her father
My adult daughter still needed me
So much is said about the mother-daughter bond
But there's an even stronger bond between a father and a daughter
No matter how old she is, she's still daddy's little girl
And he always wants to be there for her
Father daughter moments last a lifetime
From playground accidents to a broken heart
You do your best to help her pain go away
Because when she's in pain, you are too

If a daughter you have, she's the plague of your life,
No peace shall you know, tho' you've buried your wife,
At twenty she mocks at the duty you taught her,
O, what a plague is an obstinate daughter.
Sighing and whining,
Dying and pining,
O, what a plague is an obstinate daughter.
When scarce in their teens, they have wit to perplex us,
With letters and lovers for ever they vex us,
While each still rejects the fair suitor you've brought her,
O, what a plague is an obstinate daughter.
Wrangling and jangling,
Flouting and pouting,
O, what a plague is an obstinate daughter.

A naked girl in the bath
Suds floating, eyes shining
A BIG girl riding Mr. Horsy-bike
Birthday party, green balloon
A special girl grooming Sheike
Sweat streaming, cheeks flaming
A Co-op girl in the kitchen
Baking sponges with her friend Rosie
A magic girl playing Ariel,
'Merrily, merrily shall I live now'
A gentle girl at my bedside
When I was sick with pneumonia
A grown-up girl working hard
Errol Street, massage
A beautiful thirty year old girl
Ready to fly

You are the daughter of the sea, oregano's first cousin.
Swimmer, your body is pure as the water;
cook, your blood is quick as the soil.
Everything you do is full of flowers, rich with the earth.
Your eyes go out toward the water, and the waves rise;
your hands go out to the earth and the seeds swell;
you know the deep essence of water and the earth,
conjoined in you like a formula for clay.
Naiad: cut your body into turquoise pieces,
they will bloom resurrected in the kitchen.
This is how you become everything that lives.
And so at last, you sleep, in the circle of my arms
that push back the shadows so that you can rest--
vegetables, seaweed, herbs: the foam of your dreams.
Translated by Stephen Tapscott
Submitted by Hen

I met her on the Lachlan Side --
A darling girl I thought her,
And ere I left I swore I'd win
The free-selector's daughter.
I milked her father's cows a month,
I brought the wood and water,
I mended all the broken fence,
Before I won the daughter.
I listened to her father's yarns,
I did just what I `oughter',
And what you'll have to do to win
A free-selector's daughter.
I broke my pipe and burnt my twist,
And washed my mouth with water;
I had a shave before I kissed
The free-selector's daughter.
Then, rising in the frosty morn,
I brought the cows for Mary,
And when I'd milked a bucketful
I took it to the dairy.
I poured the milk into the dish
While Mary held the strainer,
I summoned heart to speak my wish,
And, oh! her blush grew plainer.
I told her I must leave the place,
I said that I would miss her;
At first she turned away her face,
And then she let me kiss her.
I put the bucket on the ground,
And in my arms I caught her:
I'd give the world to hold again
That free-selector's daughter!

It was the pleasant harvest time,
When cellar-bins are closely stowed,
And garrets bend beneath their load,
And the old swallow-haunted barns -
Brown-gabled, long, and full of seams
Through which the moted sunlight streams,
And winds blow freshly in, to shake
The red plumes of the roosted cocks,
And the loose hay-mow's scented locks -
Are filled with summer's ripened stores,
Its odorous grass and barley sheaves,
From their low scaffolds to their eaves.
On Esek Harden's oaken floor,
With many an autmn threshing worn,
Lay the heaped ears of unhusked corn.
And thither came young men and maids,
Beneath a moon that, large and low,
Lit that sweet eve of long ago.
They took their places; some by chance,
And others by a merry voice
Or sweet smile guided to their choice.
How pleasantly the rising moon,
Between the shadow of the mows,
Looked on them through the great elm-boughs! -
On sturdy boyhood sun-embrowned,
On girlhood with its solid curves
Of healthful strength and painless nerves!
And jests went round, and laughs that made
The house-dog answer with his howl,
And kept astir the barn-yard fowl;
And quaint old songs their fathers sung
In Derby dales and Yorkshire moors,
Ere Norman William trod their shores;
And tales, whose merry license shook
The fat sides of the Saxon thane,
Forgetful of the hovering Dane,—­
Rude plays to Celt and Cimbri known,
The charms and riddles that beguiled
On Oxus’ banks the young world’s child,—­
That primal picture-speech wherein
Have youth and maid the story told,
So new in each, so dateless old,
Recalling pastoral Ruth in her
Who waited, blushing and demure,
The red-ear’s kiss of forfeiture.
But still the sweetest voice was mute
That river-valley ever heard
From lips of maid or throat of bird;
For Mabel Martin sat apart,
And let the hay-mow’s shadow fall
Upon the loveliest face of all.
She sat apart, as one forbid,
Who knew that none would condescend
To own the Witch-wife’s child a friend.
The seasons scarce had gone their round,
Since curious thousands thronged to see
Her mother at the gallows-tree;
And mocked the prison-palsied limbs
That faltered on the fatal stairs,
And wan lip trembling with its prayers!
Few questioned of the sorrowing child,
Or, when they saw the mother die;
Dreamed of the daughter’s agony.
They went up to their homes that day,
As men and Christians justified
God willed it, and the wretch had died!
Dear God and Father of us all,
Forgive our faith in cruel lies,—­
Forgive the blindness that denies!
Forgive thy creature when he takes,
For the all-perfect love Thou art,
Some grim creation of his heart.
Cast down our idols, overturn
Our bloody altars; let us see
Thyself in Thy humanity!
Poor Mabel from her mother’s grave
Crept to her desolate hearth-stone,
And wrestled with her fate alone;
With love, and anger, and despair,
The phantoms of disordered sense,
The awful doubts of Providence!
The school-boys jeered her as they passed,
And, when she sought the house of prayer,
Her mother's curse pursued her there.
And still o'er many a neighboring door
She saw the horseshoe's curved charm,
To guard against her mother's harm; -
That mother, poor, and sick, and lame,
Who daily, by the old arm-chair,
Folded her withered hands in prayer; -
Who turned, in Salem's dreary jail,
Her worn old Bible o'er and o'er,
When her dim eyes could read no more!
Sore tried and pained, the poor girl kept
Her faith, and trusted that her way,
So dark, would somewhere meet the day.
And still her weary wheel went round
Day after day, with no relief
Small leisure have the poor for grief.
So in the shadow Mabel sits;
Untouched by mirth she sees and hears,
Her smile is sadder than her tears.
But cruel eyes have found her out,
And cruel lips repeat her name,
And taunt her with her mother's shame.
She answered not with railing words,
But drew her apron o'er her face,
And, sobbing, glided from the place.
And only pausing at the door,
Her sad eyes met the troubled gaze
Of one who, in her better days,
Had been her warm and steady friend,
Ere yet her mother's doom had made
Even Esek Harden half afraid.
He felt that mute appeal of tears,
And, starting, with an angry frown,
Hushed all the wicked murmurs down.
'Good neighbors mine,' he sternly said,
'This passes harmless mirth or jest;
I brook no insult to my guest.
'She is indeed her mother's child;
But God's sweet pity ministers
Unto no whiter soul than hers.
'Let Goody Martin rest in peace;
I never knew her harm a fly,
And witch or not, God knows - not I.
'I know who swore her life away;
And as God lives, I'd not condemn
An Indian dog on word of them.'
The broadest lands in all the town,
The skill to guide, the power to awe,
Were Harden's; and his word was law.
None dared withstand him to his face,
But one sly maiden spake aside
'The little witch is evil-eyed!
'Her mother only killed a cow,
Or witched a churn or dairy-pan;
But she, forsooth, must charm a man!'
Poor Mabel, in her lonely home,
Sat by the window's narrow pane,
White in the moonlight's silver rain.
The river, on its pebbled rim,
Made music such as childhood knew;
The door-yard tree was whispered through
By voices such as childhood's ear
Had heard in moonlights long ago;
And through the willow-boughs below.
She saw the rippled waters shine;
Beyond, in waves of shade and light,
The hills rolled off into the night.
She saw and heard, but over all
A sense of some transforming spell,
The shadow of her sick heart fell.
And still across the wooded space
The harvest lights of Harden shone,
And song and jest and laugh went on.
And he, so gentle, true, and strong,
Of men the bravest and the best,
Had he, too, scorned her with the rest?
She strove to drown her sense of wrong,
And, in her old and simple way,
To teach her bitter heart to pray.
Poor child! the prayer, begun in faith,
Grew to a low, despairing cry
Of utter misery: 'Let me die!
'Oh! take me from the scornful eyes,
And hide me where the cruel speech
And mocking finger may not reach!
'I dare not breathe my mother's name
A daughter's right I dare not crave
To weep above her unblest grave!
'Let me not live until my heart,
With few to pity, and with none
To love me, hardens into stone.
'O God! have mercy on Thy child,
Whose faith in Thee grows weak and small,
And take me ere I lose it all!'
A shadow on the moonlight fell,
And murmuring wind and wave became
A voice whose burden was her name.
Had then God heard her? Had He sent
His angel down? In flesh and blood,
Before her Esek Harden stood!
He laid his hand upon her arm
'Dear Mabel, this no more shall be;
Who scoffs at you must scoff at me.
'You know rough Esek Harden well;
And if he seems no suitor gay,
And if his hair is touched with gray,
'The maiden grown shall never find
His heart less warm than when she smiled,
Upon his knees, a little child!'
Her tears of grief were tears of joy,
As, folded in his strong embrace,
She looked in Esek Harden's face.
'O truest friend of all'' she said,
'God bless you for your kindly thought,
And make me worthy of my lot!'
He led her through his dewy fields,
To where the swinging lanterns glowed,
And through the doors the huskers showed.
'Good friends and neighbors!' Esek said,
'I'm weary of this lonely life;
In Mabel see my chosen wife!
'She greets you kindly, one and all;
The past is past, and all offence
Falls harmless from her innocence.
'Henceforth she stands no more alone;
You know what Esek Harden is: -
He brooks no wrong to him or his.'
Now let the merriest tales be told,
And let the sweetest songs be sung
That ever made the old heart young!
For now the lost has found a home;
And a lone hearth shall brighter burn,
As all the household joys return!
Oh, pleasantly the harvest-moon,
Between the shadow of the mows,
Looked on them through the great elm-boughs!
On Mabel's curls of golden hair,
On Esek's shaggy strength it fell;
And the wind whispered, 'It is well!'

The moment you were born, you announced
Your arrival in our family, screaming out loud
Now that I am here, attention is my birth right.
Of course, we catered to you day and night.
No sooner had the nurse brought you
And put you in my arms, I knew
As you looked at me from your yellow
Bonnet, you were going to be a handful.
Once you brought the roof down
At midnight, and just to drown
Your screams, your dad put on rock music
To our surprise you slept looking cherubic.
That morning thoughtfully, I dispensed with
DR Spock and other self help books, I think.
As I realised that night, you were unique
Divine guidance I will have to seek.
You rejected all canned baby food
And threw tantrums, had mercurial moods.
Unpredictable, assertive even as a child
Felt at loss whether to be strict or mild.
Early on, I had to my dismay found
Life was not going to be a merry go round
I hoped with time, you would mellow down,
Hopeless, I would feel drained by Sun down.
Thus the years… not exactly flew.
And before, I knew
You brought home a guy
Grinning broadly saying Hi.
We didn’t snigger, just kept quiet
No point to reason, resist or fight.
Looking us in the eye, you said trust my instincts,
Folks just hurry and send cards for print.
Born rebel, we just had no choice but to accept
Angry, I thought she belong in a home for delinquents.
And to maintain peace at all costs
We blessed the couple and raised a toast.
For once she proved to be right
The guy turned out to be quite bright.
Now she has a one year old baby
Who like little Denise drives her crazy.
One day on a visit, she quizzed
Mom, how did you put up with me?
Darling, we mothers survive,
Just enjoy and let her thrive.
She asked, her eyes filled with a plea
i hope you didn't ask God to punish me?
where did you get this idea, my dear
i know i know, i troubled you for years.

749
All but Death, can be Adjusted—
Dynasties repaired—
Systems—settled in their Sockets—
Citadels—dissolved—
Wastes of Lives—resown with Colors
By Succeeding Springs—
Death—unto itself—Exception—
Is exempt from Change—

IF God compel thee to this destiny,
To die alone, with none beside thy bed
To ruffle round with sobs thy last word said
And mark with tears the pulses ebb from thee,--
Pray then alone, ' O Christ, come tenderly !
By thy forsaken Sonship in the red
Drear wine-press,--by the wilderness out-spread,--
And the lone garden where thine agony
Fell bloody from thy brow,--by all of those
Permitted desolations, comfort mine !
No earthly friend being near me, interpose
No deathly angel 'twixt my face aud thine,
But stoop Thyself to gather my life's rose,
And smile away my mortal to Divine ! '

548
Death is potential to that Man
Who dies—and to his friend—
Beyond that—unconspicuous
To Anyone but God—
Of these Two—God remembers
The longest—for the friend—
Is integral—and therefore
Itself dissolved—of God—

Death sets a thing significant
The eye had hurried by,
Except a perished creature
Entreat us tenderly
To ponder little workmanships
In crayon or in wool,
With 'This was last her fingers did,'
Industrious until
The thimble weighed too heavy,
The stitches stopped themselves,
And then 't was put among the dust
Upon the closet shelves.
A book I have, a friend gave,
Whose pencil, here and there,
Had notched the place that pleased him,--
At rest his fingers are.
Now, when I read, I read not,
For interrupting tears
Obliterate the etchings
Too costly for repairs.

382
For Death—or rather
For the Things 'twould buy—
This—put away
Life's Opportunity—
The Things that Death will buy
Are Room—
Escape from Circumstances—
And a Name—
With Gifts of Life
How Death's Gifts may compare—
We know not—
For the Rates—lie Here—

Let me die a youngman's death
not a clean and inbetween
the sheets holywater death
not a famous-last-words
peaceful out of breath death
When I'm 73
and in constant good tumour
may I be mown down at dawn
by a bright red sports car
on my way home
from an allnight party
Or when I'm 91
with silver hair
and sitting in a barber's chair
may rival gangsters
with hamfisted tommyguns burst in
and give me a short back and insides
Or when I'm 104
and banned from the Cavern
may my mistress
catching me in bed with her daughter
and fearing for her son
cut me up into little pieces
and throw away every piece but one
Let me die a youngman's death
not a free from sin tiptoe in
candle wax and waning death
not a curtains drawn by angels borne
'what a nice way to go' death

FROM dark abodes to fair etherial light
Th' enraptur'd innocent has wing'd her flight;
On the kind bosom of eternal love
She finds unknown beatitude above.
This known, ye parents, nor her loss deplore,
She feels the iron hand of pain no more;
The dispensations of unerring grace,
Should turn your sorrows into grateful praise;
Let then no tears for her henceforward flow,
No more distress'd in our dark vale below,
Her morning sun, which rose divinely bright,
Was quickly mantled with the gloom of night;
But hear in heav'n's blest bow'rs your Nancy fair,
And learn to imitate her language there.
"Thou, Lord, whom I behold with glory crown'd,
"By what sweet name, and in what tuneful sound
"Wilt thou be prais'd?  Seraphic pow'rs are faint
"Infinite love and majesty to paint.
"To thee let all their graceful voices raise,
"And saints and angels join their songs of praise."
Perfect in bliss she from her heav'nly home
Looks down, and smiling beckons you to come;
Why then, fond parents, why these fruitless groans?
Restrain your tears, and cease your plaintive moans.
Freed from a world of sin, and snares, and pain,
Why would you wish your daughter back again?
No--bow resign'd.  Let hope your grief control,
And check the rising tumult of the soul.
Calm in the prosperous, and adverse day,
Adore the God who gives and takes away;
Eye him in all, his holy name revere,
Upright your actions, and your hearts sincere,
Till having sail'd through life's tempestuous sea,
And from its rocks, and boist'rous billows free,
Yourselves, safe landed on the blissful shore,
Shall join your happy babe to part no more.

THE warder looks down at the mid hour of night,
On the tombs that lie scatter'd below:
The moon fills the place with her silvery light,
And the churchyard like day seems to glow.
When see! first one grave, then another opes wide,
And women and men stepping forth are descried,
In cerements snow-white and trailing.
In haste for the sport soon their ankles they twitch,
And whirl round in dances so gay;
The young and the old, and the poor, and the rich,
But the cerements stand in their way;
And as modesty cannot avail them aught here,
They shake themselves all, and the shrouds soon appear
Scatter'd over the tombs in confusion.
Now waggles the leg, and now wriggles the thigh,
As the troop with strange gestures advance,
And a rattle and clatter anon rises high,
As of one beating time to the dance.
The sight to the warder seems wondrously queer,
When the villainous Tempter speaks thus in his ear:
"Seize one of the shrouds that lie yonder!"
Quick as thought it was done! and for safety he fled
Behind the church-door with all speed;
The moon still continues her clear light to shed
On the dance that they fearfully lead.
But the dancers at length disappear one by one,
And their shrouds, ere they vanish, they carefully don,
And under the turf all is quiet.
But one of them stumbles and shuffles there still,
And gropes at the graves in despair;
Yet 'tis by no comrade he's treated so ill
The shroud he soon scents in the air.
So he rattles the door--for the warder 'tis well
That 'tis bless'd, and so able the foe to repel,
All cover'd with crosses in metal.
The shroud he must have, and no rest will allow,
There remains for reflection no time;
On the ornaments Gothic the wight seizes now,
And from point on to point hastes to climb.
Alas for the warder! his doom is decreed!
Like a long-legged spider, with ne'er-changing speed,
Advances the dreaded pursuer.
The warder he quakes, and the warder turns pale,
The shroud to restore fain had sought;
When the end,--now can nothing to save him avail,--
In a tooth formed of iron is caught.
With vanishing lustre the moon's race is run,
When the bell thunders loudly a powerful One,
And the skeleton fails, crush'd to atoms.

WHILE deep you mourn beneath the cypress-shade
The hand of Death, and your dear daughter
laid
In dust, whose absence gives your tears to flow,
And racks your bosom with incessant woe,
Let Recollection take a tender part,
Assuage the raging tortures of your heart,
Still the wild tempest of tumultuous grief,
And pour the heav'nly nectar of relief:
Suspend the sigh, dear Sir, and check the groan,
Divinely bright your daughter's Virtues shone:
How free from scornful pride her gentle mind,
Which ne'er its aid to indigence declin'd!
Expanding free, it sought the means to prove
Unfailing charity, unbounded love!
She unreluctant flies to see no more
Her dear-lov'd parents on earth's dusky shore:
Impatient heav'n's resplendent goal to gain,
She with swift progress cuts the azure plain,
Where grief subsides, where changes are no more,
And life's tumultuous billows cease to roar;
She leaves her earthly mansion for the skies,
Where new creations feast her wond'ring eyes.
To heav'n's high mandate cheerfully resign'd
She mounts, and leaves the rolling globe behind;
She, who late wish'd that Leonard might return,
Has ceas'd to languish, and forgot to mourn;
To the same high empyreal mansions come,
She joins her spouse, and smiles upon the tomb:
And thus I hear her from the realms above:
"Lo! this the kingdom of celestial love!
"Could ye, fond parents, see our present bliss,
"How soon would you each sigh, each fear dismiss?
"Amidst unutter'd pleasures whilst I play
"In the fair sunshine of celestial day,
"As far as grief affects an happy soul
"So far doth grief my better mind controul,
"To see on earth my aged parents mourn,
"And secret wish for T-----! to return:
"Let brighter scenes your ev'ning-hours employ:
"Converse with heav'n, and taste the promis'd joy"

Staring at the walls...at the pictures that hang there
each photo...of it all
each step of our relationship..that started, with lust, wanting and care
the last picture that is hung
showing the ultimate happiness, of us being in love
I GET THE DEEPEST DEPRESSION
just staring at these things...
the photos on the wall
and the finger that holds my engagement ring
looking around the room, looking at it all
now just filled with dread, n, doom
the dieing roses in the crystal vase
marks the symbol..of the day
when it all was lost, n, went away
the photo album that we made
starts with the pictures of our 1st date, where it started
the last picture is of us, in love
3 days, b4 love was departed
is of the day you proposed, look at it, we are so in love
a red box that had matched
the teddy bear with the red herat attached
in which you gave to me b4 the proposal, inside it held the ring
to unite our love, to bring
us 2gether, from now til 4ever
I GET THE DEEPEST DEPRESSION
JUST LOOKING AT THESE THINGS
the 2 wine glasses,4m which we drank, sealing the deal
a begining to our new fate
n to our proposal, we gave, love cheers, and thanks
the card thats hung,4m the dieing flowers in theyre crystal vase
that you gave.....to me..b4 you kneeled onto 1 knee
uttering the most 4 words a man can say...
all of it is now gonn..just taken away
just in such a short time....3 damn days
I GET THE DEEPEST DEPRESSION
JUST HOLDING THESE THINGS....
the pictures, the wine glass
the teddy bear with the red heart attached
the photo album, the 1st photo, in which we started
the courtship, that blossomed into a beautiful relationship
the last photo, hung on the wall...its left me so broken hearted
the cards i kept in a shoe box, from you, giving to me through
no reason @ all, my birthday, holidays, n anniversary
each card filled with words of love, each card, having its own diversity
I GET THE DEEPEST DEPRESSION
JUST HOLDING, N, TOUCHING, OR LOOKING AT ALL OUR THINGS
to the life we had, the home we made
that just vanished...poof, went away.....
DEEPEST DEPRESSION OVER EVERYTHING....
ESPECIALIALLY THE FINGER THAT WEARS MY ENGAGEMENT RING.....

Depression isn't obvious but suicide is.
My pain nobody sees.
My my mangled body they shall see.
My head was all but a mess.
Depression overtaking me.
Suicide was to be my bid for freedom.
Becuase deppression isn't obvious but suicide is.
Depression is never obvious even when its staring them in the face.
But now suicide will be obvious  how can it not?
Now my life is too much to bear.
Suicide I shall commit.
Now its obvious but its all too late.

depression is not what you want in your life
depression is not the answer to your problems
depression effects your mind and your thoughts
depression is anger and lashing out at people
depression is something you feel when no else cares about you

i can't stop wondering why
i sit still and cry
hoping everyday
i change my destructive way
preventing others in
but yet commiting my on sin
thinking everthing is immoral
because i am drowned in sorrow
no one knows the tears i shed
while lying in my bed
every night i prey
to feel better the next day
but never stopping to think
maybe this is my way

Depression sets in
When you wanna die
You're not willing to try
Depression sets in
When you cant take it
And all you wanna do is cry
You're seventeen
And all you can think
Is this life is long and hard.
There's gotta be something
There's gotta be a way
To stay happy
And never have to cry
Never have to be so upset
Where you just wanna die
But nothing is like that
Nothing can make you happy
And depression sets in

I scream but there's no sound,
I cry but there's no tears,
Is this life,
Or am i isolated with emotion.
No one is listening,
I dont think anyone cares,
Is this life,
Or hell with normal people.
I try to act normal,
But no one know's the thoughts inside my head,
My so called life,
Filled with thoughts of being better off dead.

'Just get over it, ' they say
I wish I could find a way
Living with it day by day
Memories won't go away
Medication helps to sway
Many feelings of dismay
But they do fail to decay
The loss that one does survey
Let the Lord of All
Show me The Way
© 2011

Take me home
Take me home
Take me home Lord God
Take me home
She broke my heart
And it won't mend
I say please Lord God
Let it end
Take me home
Take me home
Take me home Lord God
Take me home
Was it all
Just a lie
I say please Lord God
Let it die
Take me home
Take me home
Take me home Lord God
Take me home
Why she left
I don't know
I say please Lord God
Let it go
Take me home
Take me home
Take me home Lord God
Take me home
< br>
© 2011
depression depression depression depression depression depression depression depression depression depression depression depression song song song song song song song song song song song song song song song song song song song song song song song song song song home home home home home home home home home home home God God God God God God God God God

Twilight declares its arrival
The waves crash against the rocks
The traffic moves slowly
The crowds buzz by
We can't look eye to eye.
The mood was light
Now silence hangs low
Thoughts create a tornado
From him to her and her to him
Suddenly melancholy spurts
And words follow.
The winds of depression
From the fathoms of the ocean
Swayed-
Our mood
Our talks
Our thoughts
Our love
For a while
And no more.
Lights glowed bright
Waves calmed
Traffic smoothed
Crowds did not bother
Luckily,
Oceans have a shore
Winds changes course
The winds died down
Depression sucked out
Eyes found the strength
To look at another of their kind
Only you were around
With a heart full of love.
(28 April 2008)

Despair, if you must –
But how's it going to pull you through?
Despair, when you trust
Naught since then there's naught to do.
Despair, should you thrust
Aside your pride, your self-esteem.
And so despair, if it's dust,
The only substance that you deem.
Despair, when a gust
Of slightly breeze can break your stance.
And do despair, when lust
Is your interpretation of romance.
But don't despair, if you can care
About the plight of any other being.
And you can focus on the help,
Support, and altruistic further actions
For the seeing.  Be believing,
As despair will start receding
All around – simply since you found
A way to steer you clear
From this: the very cause of your despair!
So give to others; give them all a helping lift:
Despair, you'll find will disappear –
And that has got to be a well-deserved
And saintly gift!
Copyright © Mark R Slaughter 2009
< br>
< br>
Rain of despair
despair despair despair despair despair despair despair
despair despair despair despair despair despair despair
despair despair despair despair despair despair despair
despair despair despair despair despair despair despair
despair despair despair despair despair despair despair
despair despair despair despair despair despair despair
despair despair despair despair despair despair despair

DESPAIR IS DARKNESS
Despair is darkness-
Despair is death inside and death in the world and death in one’s own sad soul-
Despair is no way out -
Despair is the place where one is forever stuck -
Despair is the realization that one has done what one could – and one is not going anywhere else-
Despair is the admission of failure-
Despair is no sign of help anywhere around-
Despair is so much lost-
Despair is one‘s life is over-
Despair is regret-
Despair is the sense that one will never have the time to have another chance -
Despair is ‘it’s finished’-
Despair is no way out-
Despair is going down and more down and more dark and more afraid all the time -
Despair is the scream which hurts and does not stop the hurting -
Despair is the understanding that even Death will not save one -
Despair is that the pain will never end-not even with death.
Despair is no way out again and again and again- without end.

SMILE on me, mouth of red--so much too red,
Shine on me, eyes which darkened lashes shade,
Turn, turn my way, oh glorious golden head,
My soul is lost, then let the price be paid!
Amid rich flowers your rosy lamplight gleams,
Amid rich hangings pass your scented hours,
And woods and fields are green but in my dreams,
And only in my dreams grow meadow-flowers.
I have forgotten everything but you--
The apple orchard where the whitethroat sings,
The quiet fields, the moonlight, and the dew,
The virgin's bower that in wet hedgerow clings.
I have forgotten how the cool grass waves
Where clean winds blow, and where good women pray
For happy, honest men, safe in their graves;
And--oh, my God! I would I were as they!

Despise poetry, and you'll be named to office.
But to love poetry is like clinging to a mountain:
frozen, holding tight, facing death,
days of sorrow followed by sorrow.
The bourgeoisie are jealous of those
who love poetry: they flash teeth like knives.
All the old sages are long since dead,
but bureaucrats still gnaw their bones.
Now I'm frail, dying like a frond.
All my life I sought a noble calm,
a calm I could never achieve.
And the noisy rabble mocked me.

Frozen tears fall to the ground,
covering up this weeping sound.
Of lamenting throughout the land.
Seeping through like grains of sand.
It penertrates our very hearts,
paper thin hit with poison darts.
The darkness grows and closes in,
crying out its resounding win.
Fallen hopes and fallen dreams,
deathly cries and chilling screams.
Not a single soul is spared the pain,
We only wait for the Winter's wane.

What is the world coming to?
Though carrying weapons is taboo
Children are happy totting the gun,
Whether to settle scores or just for fun.
When did innocence get lost and things changed?
It some how seems shocking and strange.
Too much T V, films is the reason
Reason elders for this violence and aggression.
Isn’t there lack of communication?
This has had deeper ramifications.
The young yearn for someone to share
Their confusion, but no one has time to spare.
If you are not there when your child needs you,
You will be the last to know what he brews
When he turns to his peers
To share his angst and fears.
A child is born out of a moment of ecstasy,
It is sad then you become too busy
To teach your child right from wrong,
And make him morally strong
Did you consider the likelihood
Of sacrifices you’ll have to make for parenthood?
And teach him to stand his ground
And not be bullied by any hound.
It is time to figure out
How to bring a turnabout.
In order to sort out this mess
Everyone has to try to impress
That none is above the law.
We have to overcome our flaws,
So our kids do not go astray.
Good sense prevails, I hope and pray.
Its already late
Don’t leave their future to chance and fate.

There is certainly
No reason to sadly wander
On these broken lonely streets
Except for the purpose,
The desperate prayer,
Of seeing her again,
My precious friend
Of the alienated boulevards.
It’s been four years
Since we’ve kissed,
I was a small boy then
Who didn’t know
Anything about love
And I know less than ever now.
Romantic heartbreak
Has always been
My only destination,
My crestfallen relationship
To the universe
Is to be a weeping star
Revolving around
A planet of despair.

I read them
read them all
the unbelievable human heart
so easily hurt
yearning, always the yearning
for breath
simply
without pain.

'Tis not too late to build our young land right,
Cleaner than Holland, courtlier than Japan,
Devout like early Rome, with hearths like hers,
Hearths that will recreate the breed called man.

What is a child’s destiny?
Is it our corrupt family structure, politics, prices, poverty, poor housing or our social condition?
Is it fair to let him face such a world?
Why create a generation and let them die in no time
Is it fair to let him face such a world?
Why create a child without a destiny.
Don’t do it for fun or for a pastime,
A child is important
Never create a being without a purpose
Think about the destiny of a child.

What a strange life one must lead
Heading towards our destruction
We are born to die
But first we must survive
Someone has planned that at a point in our lives
We will decide to destruct
Nothing will equal that time
For that will be our climax
Everything we feel is perfect
Though its not as perfect
As the time we reach our destiny
What strange happenings will befall us all
Before our final performance?
How many times will we conclude
That nothing can be as great as this?
Try as we will the conclusion
Will be the best performance of our lives
For within us all
Is the desire to leave the world dramatically.
We all must leave our mark
Be it only that we have lived
It is a mark
Before I go I want to say
Thankyou for letting me go this way
Don’t tell me when I must go
For I know when my final performance will be.
Prepare me to judge as I will be judged
So that I can know when and how to help
Make it hard to understand
So that my feelings will be my guide.

TODAY IS TOMMOROW,
DAYZ OF SHALLOW,
THE SUN YOU FOLLOW,
THE LIGHT OF SHADOW,
YESTURDAY IS GONE,
A NEW DAY HAS COME,
THA CROSSROADS OF ETERNITY,
WICH IS MY DESTINY?
LOST SOULS BENEATH HELLS BLACK HOLES,
ANGELS VICTORIOUS
ABOVE HEAVEN SO GLORIOUS.
Copyright ©2009  Jose Murguia

We plot our own destiny
Be it the path to happiness
Or the road to ruin.
Despite the highs and lows of our lives
It is we and we alone
Who plot our own destinies.
We can choose to be changed
Or be the agents of change
We can remain chained
To the taboos imposed by society
Or we can unchain ourselves and be free
Whatever we chose will finally
Make or mar our destiny.

Fate and Destiny
Who can tell us what Fate and Destiny are?
Who can tell us what our Fate is?
Who can tell us what our Destiny is?
Fate. Destiny.
People say we cannot choose our Fate, but we can choose our Destiny.
People say we are Fated or Destined to do/become something.
Fate. Destiny.
Are they different?
Are they the same?
People say we can choose Destiny and we are Fated to do it.
People say that our Destiny is open, but our Fate is sealed.
Are Fate and Destiny the same?
If our Destiny has yet to be chosen but our Fate is sealed, then is not our Destiny already chosen, but unseen to us until the opportune moment?
Fate. Destiny.
When is the opportune moment?
At what point in our life will our Fate and Destiny be revealed?
Or will we realize what our Fate and Destiny are only when it is too late?
Or will we pass our Fate and Destiny without knowing it?
Fate. Destiny.
If someone tells us what our Fate and Destiny are, will we like what we hear?
Or will you strive against the path set before you?

To get you to smile means the world to me
I dont know where to begin
Through thick and thin
And in between
You loving me has been a dream
I always wondered if dreams came true
It was proved to me the day i met you
I love you soo much you'll never know
Day by day my love for you grows
Love has always been a game for me
But with you loving me
It seems like destiny

All these days  i went around the world
Hoping to seek joy and peace.
Out of all my tender pursuit;
I found myself chained in desolate kingdom.
Money, time, trust whatnot everything
I lost; yet my pursuit in vain.
Now to regret is too futile
In such desperate vibes, I sought after
The word of LORD, where I achieved my goal!

1
Senlin sat before us and we heard him.
He smoked his pipe before us and we saw him.
Was he small, with reddish hair,
Did he light his pipe with a meditative stare
And a twinkling flame reflected in blue eyes?
'I am alone': said Senlin; 'in a forest of leaves
The single leaf that creeps and falls.
The single blade of grass in a desert of grass
That none foresaw and none recalls.
The single shell that a green wave shatters
In tiny specks of whiteness on brown sands . . .
How shall you understand me with your hearts,
Who cannot reach me with your hands? . . .'
The city dissolves about us, and its walls
Are the sands beside a sea.
We plunge in a chaos of dunes, white waves before us
Crash on kelp tumultuously,
Gulls wheel over foam, the clouds blow tattered,
The sun is swallowed . . . Has Senlin become a shore?
Is Senlin a grain of sand beneath our footsteps,
A speck of shell upon which waves will roar? . . .
Senlin! we cry . . . Senlin! again . . . no answer,
Only the crash of sea on a shell-white shore.
Yet, we would say, this is no shore at all,
But a small bright room with lamplight on the wall;
And the familiar chair
Where Senlin sat, with lamplight on his hair.
2
Senlin, alone before us, played a music.
Was it himself he played? . . . We sat and listened,
Perplexed and pleased and tired.
'Listen!' he said, 'and you will learn a secret--
Though it is not the secret you desired.
I have not found a meaning that will praise you!
Out of the heart of silence comes this music,
Quietly speaks and dies.
Look! there is one white star above black houses!
And a tiny man who climbs toward the skies!
Where does he walk to? What does he leave behind him?
What was his foolish name?
What did he stop to say, before he left you
As simply as he came?
"Death?" did it sound like, "love and god, and laughter,
Sunlight, and work, and pain . . .?"
No--it appears to me that these were symbols
Of simple truths he found no way to explain.
He spoke, but found you could not understand him--
You were alone, and he was alone.
"He sought to touch you, and found he could not reach you,--
He sought to understand you, and could not hear you.
And so this music, which I play before you,--
Does it mean only what it seems to mean?
Or is it a dance of foolish waves in sunlight
Above a desperate depth of things unseen?
Listen! Do you not hear the singing voices
Out of the darkness of this sea?
But no: you cannot hear them; for if you heard them
You would have heard and captured me.
Yet I am here, talking of laughter.
Laughter and love and work and god;
As I shall talk of these same things hereafter
In wave and sod.
Walk on a hill and call me: "Senlin! . . . Senlin! . . ."
Will I not answer you as clearly as now?
Listen to rain, and you will hear me speaking.
Look for my heart in the breaking of a bough . . .'
3
Senlin stood before us in the sunlight,
And laughed, and walked away.
Did no one see him leaving the doors of the city,
Looking behind him, as if he wished to stay?
Has no one, in the forests of the evening,
Heard the sad horn of Senlin slowly blown?
For somewhere, in the worlds-in-worlds about us,
He changes still, unfriended and alone.
Is he the star on which we walk at daybreak,
The light that blinds our eyes?
'Senlin!' we cry. 'Senlin!' again . . . no answer:
Only the soulless brilliance of blue skies.
Yet we would say, this was no man at all,
But a dream we dreamed, and vividly recall;
And we are mad to walk in wind and rain
Hoping to find, somewhere, that dream again.

It is the destiny in winter.

Twenty-eight naked young women bathed by the shore
Or near the bank of a woodland lake
Twenty-eight girls and all of them comely
Worthy of Mack Sennett's camera and Florenz Ziegfield's
Foolish Follies.
They splashed and swam with the wondrous unconsciousness
Of their youth and beauty
In the full spontaneity and summer of the fieshes of
awareness
Heightened, intensified and softened
By the soft and the silk of the waters
Blooded made ready by the energy set afire by the
nakedness of the body,
Electrified: deified: undenied.
A young man of thirty years beholds them from a distance.
He lives in the dungeon of ten million dollars.
He is rich, handsome and empty standing behind the linen curtains
Beholding them.
Which girl does he think most desirable, most beautiful?
They are all equally beautiful and desirable from the gold distance.
For if poverty darkens discrimination and makes
perception too vivid,
The gold of wealth is also a form of blindness.
For has not a Frenchman said, Although this is America...
What he has said is not entirely relevant,
That a naked woman is a proof of the existence of God.
Where is he going?
Is he going to be among them to splash and to laugh with them?
They did not see him although he saw them and was there among them.
He saw them as he would not have seen them had they been conscious
Of him or conscious of men in complete depravation:
This is his enchantment and impoverishment
As he possesses them in gaze only.
. . .He felt the wood secrecy, he knew the June softness
The warmth surrounding him crackled
Held in by the mansard roof mansion
He glimpsed the shadowy light on last year's brittle leaves fallen,
Looked over and overlooked, glimpsed by the fall of death,
Winter's mourning and the May's renewal.

Take this kiss upon the brow!
And, in parting from you now,
Thus much let me avow-
You are not wrong, who deem
That my days have been a dream;
Yet if hope has flown away
In a night, or in a day,
In a vision, or in none,
Is it therefore the less gone?
All that we see or seem
Is but a dream within a dream.
I stand amid the roar
Of a surf-tormented shore,
And I hold within my hand
Grains of the golden sand-
How few! yet how they creep
Through my fingers to the deep,
While I weep- while I weep!
O God! can I not grasp
Them with a tighter clasp?
O God! can I not save
One from the pitiless wave?
Is all that we see or seem
But a dream within a dream?

I'm dreaming a different dream
I can see it in the distance
I've reached for it
touched it
it is not the same dream
but like all love dreams
it leaves me breathless
Copyright @ Aqua Flower

With head up in the clouds, I carry on.
My dreams, alone, escape and climb aloft
Upon the wings of feathered siblings,
Brothers of my fantasies.
As pilots of the clouds, they kiss the sun. My dreams can reach the peaked tops of trees
Astride the solitary osprey's back,
While some, ride tucked away in outspread plumes
Or perched upon the proud bald eagle's head,
A symbol of our land.
Still other dreams go whistling by, on hawks
To whose great glorious wings they cling. They straddle winds that spin in rings
Around the world, yet never stop.
My dreams ride high into the sky;
But, when I sleep, my head rests light
Upon a cushion of those dreams.
They fill my life with wealth beyond belief,
Which I now share with you.

Image of her whom I love, more than she,
Whose fair impression in my faithful heart
Makes me her medal, and makes her love me,
As Kings do coins, to which their stamps impart
The value: go, and take my heart from hence,
Which now is grown too great and good for me:
Honours oppress weak spirits, and our sense
Strong objects dull; the more, the less we see.
When you are gone, and Reason gone with you,
Then Fantasy is queen and soul, and all;
She can present joys meaner than you do;
Convenient, and more proportional.
So, if I dream I have you, I have you,
For, all our joys are but fantastical.
And so I 'scape the pain, for pain is true;
And sleep which locks up sense, doth lock out all.
After a such fruition I shall wake,
And, but the waking, nothing shall repent;
And shall to love more thankful sonnets make
Than if more honour, tears, and pains were spent.
But dearest heart, and dearer image, stay;
Alas, true joys at best are dream enough;
Though you stay here you pass too fast away:
For even at first life's taper is a snuff.
Filied with her love, may I be rather grown
Mad with much heart, than idiot with none.

Oh! the days are gone, when Beauty bright
My heart's chain wove;
When my dream of life, from morn till night,
Was love, still love.
New hope may bloom,
And days may come,
Of milder calmer beam,
But there's nothing half so sweet in life
As love's young dream:
No, there's nothing half so sweet in life
As love's young dream.
Though the bard to purer fame may soar,
When wild youth's past;
Though he win the wise, who frown'd before,
To smile at last;
He'll never meet
A joy so sweet,
In all his noon of fame,
As when first he sung to woman's ear
His soul-felt flame,
And, at every close, she blush'd to hear
The one loved name.
No, -  that hallow'd form is ne'er forgot
Which first love traced;
Still it lingering haunts the greenest spot
On memory's waste.
'Twas odour fled
As soon as shed;
'Twas morning's winged dream;
'Twas a light, tht ne'er can shine again
On life's dull stream:
Oh! 'twas light that n'er can shine again
On life's dull stream.

A dream of mine flew over the mead
To the halls where my old Love reigns;
And it drew me on to follow its lead:
And I stood at her window-panes;
And I saw but a thing of flesh and bone
Speeding on to its cleft in the clay;
And my dream was scared, and expired on a moan,
And I whitely hastened away.

I have a dream
to fill the golden sheath
of a remembered day....
(Air
heavy and massed and blue
as the vapor of opium...
domes
fired in sulphurous mist...
sea
quiescent as a gray seal...
and the emerging sun
spurting up gold
over Sydney, smoke-pale, rising out of the bay....)
But the day is an up-turned cup
and its sun a junk of red iron
guttering in sluggish-green water--
where shall I pour my dream?

MY DREAM WAS BORN TO ME BY DAY
SOME DREAMS ARE BORN BY NIGHT!
SHE CAME IN THE MONTH OF MAY,
THE WORLD, WAS STILL AND QUITE! NOW WITH TIME ALL THIS HAS
CHANGED,
MY DREAM SHE LAUGHS AND SMILES!
THE WONDROUS LOVE, THAT SHE
EXPANDS
COMES ONLY FROM A CHILD! IF HEAVEN CAN ONLY BE LIKE THIS,
AND DREAMS ALWAYS THIS RIGHT,
MAY GOD PRESERVE HER LOVELY SOUL
AND KEEP HER IN HIS SIGHT! SHE SINGS TO ME OF LOVE AND LIFE
AND KEEPS MY HEART FULFILLED,
MY DREAMS LIKE HERS ARE WONDERFUL
AND IN ALL OUR DREAMS WE LIVE! SOME SAY DREAMS ARE MADE BY FOOLS!
BUT THIS I DO DEPLORE
FOR GOD GAVE ME THE RAREST GEM
WHEN MY DREAM WALKED IN THE DOOR!

Am i evil for believing what i do?
Am i evil for not agreeing with you?
Can't i be right and you wrong,
maybe your weak and im strong
Am i evil for having dark skin?
Am i evil for not being your twin?
Can't i be white and you black,
maybe i have what you lack.
am i evil for not being like you?
am i evil for being a nail... and u a screw?
Can't i be the screw and you the nail
maybe i'll succeed and where you fail
maybe your the evil one and im the good
and ur the one whos misunderstood.

I should have stayed with my first instincts
for when I saw you
in the back of my head an alarm went off
it screamed evil
pure evil
but I ignored it
you changed before my eyes
but I didn’t pay attention
I ignored all the warning signs
until it was to late
I should have turned and ran
but instead i stood there like a sheep waiting at the slaughter
I just stood there
before I realized what you planned on doing
I as trapped
I was cornered
and there was your chance
and you took it
you attacked

There is Something
Very Evil about him
And he calls himself
A Friend.
It is better to be
Harmed by
Foes in Life
Than be Ruined
By such an
Evil Friend.

I am evil because I love too much,
wanting those I love to keep in touch;
I am evil that I dare to care,
evil that I'm always 'there';
evil. I invite insult;
evil; I deserve the hurt.
I am evil that I wish to protect;
I am evil that I cannot neglect
the needs, or those I mis-perceive
in those who have no need, it seems.
I am evil that I wish to say
how much I love someone today.
I am evil if I self-protect
with reason, tears or intellect.
I am evil if I should expect
love back; for I deserve neglect.
I am evil that I may press on;
for evil people should be gone.

Sun scorched barren ground
Like spreading lines on shattered glass
Cracks split wide the arid terrain
Thirsting for much needed water
What once was full of fish and plants?
Is now a dry useless river bed
Skeletal remains of life rot in the sun
Animals thirst for a dropp of life’s liquid
Garden full of beauty now withers
Limp and stringy vines droop, barren
Birds gather round to pick the last seeds
Soon move on as death has come to all
Children cry as hunger invades tiny bellies
Nature is in control nothing can be done
Warnings long ignored the evil winds blow
It bares the name of Global Warming

Im here bounded for life
Come to me
Break these chains that hold me back
help me bring my life back
I know, I kno
This may all frighten you
But please free me from this life of torment
Cause if you dont I will surely die
With these final words out of my bloody mouth
Who will remember me now
Not as this decaying evil soul
That I most proudly show
But as this peaceful hearted man
That I desperatly hold withen
These two sides of me fights for everlasting control
Good Vs. Evil
If one finaly wins
Will I still be me
Or would i become pure good
And bring forth peacefull things to the end my life
Or will I become absolute evil
To remain bound to my chains for all eternity
As these being my final words
Just go and leave this hideus creature
Bound in chains for the sins he has made

It’s a beautiful land
It’s a home for many
Many lived with peace
Lived with unity and love
With smiles on each face
Children play with its mud
Farms dance with its soil
Rivers flow on its bed
Flowers glow all around
Nature loves that land
Life is very simple there
Children go to school
Men and Women work
Old ones enjoy life
People lived happily
People pray in church
People pray in mosque
People pray as they wish
It has different beliefs
But all are united
Its unity is questioned
Questioned by an evil
Its name is ‘WAR’
It bombed that land
And killed everything
Destroyed homes of many
Many lived in fear
Many cried in pain
In pain of lost ones
Taken away by evil
Some can’t kick football
Some can’t write proper
Some tears can’t run down
Many got wounded
Wounded by the evil
Schools got bombed
Books got burned
Playground in silent
Kids didn’t grow up
Evil axed even tulips
Farms caught fire
Fruits weren’t picked
Rivers flowed red
Water wasn’t tasted
Evil ruined the nature
Church bells stopped ringing
Mosque no longer stands
Culture no longer rejoiced
Beautiful land is ragged
In the hands of evil
Evil, who’s name is WAR
Its only aim is blood
Blood of many innocent lives
Life is the gift of god
God’s message is peace and love
So let’s spread his message
And kill this evil forever
And free this world forever
Forever from its bloody hands
Into the hands of peace forever

In these caves I've dwelled for long
The lust for blood keeps me strong
Fly at dusk, land at dawn
Evil and darkness I bring upon
It makes no difference in my eyes
If I slay for right or wrong
Selfinflicted are their cries
In the graveyards they belong
Once blessed with life, now with death
I decide to kill them all
Without them evil will fall
They have taken their last breath
Now that my job is done
Evil, there is one last one
No more peace before it's gone
I decide to wait past dawn

Nay, be you pardoner or cheat,
Or cogger keen, or mumper shy,
You'll burn your fingers at the feat,
And howl like other folks that fry.
All evil folks that love a lie!
And where goes gain that greed amasses,
By wile, and trick, and thievery?
'Tis all to taverns and to lasses!
Rhyme, rail, dance, play the cymbals sweet,
With game, and shame, and jollity,
Go jigging through the field and street,
With MYST'RY and MORALITY;
Win gold at GLEEK,--and that will fly,
Where all you gain at PASSAGE passes, -
And that's? You know as well as I,
'Tis all to taverns and to lasses!
Nay, forth from all such filth retreat,
Go delve and ditch, in wet or dry,
Turn groom, give horse and mule their meat,
If you've no clerkly skill to ply;
You'll gain enough, with husbandry,
But--sow hempseed and such wild grasses,
And where goes all you take thereby? -
'Tis all to taverns and to lasses!
ENVOY.
Your clothes, your hose, your broidery,
Your linen that the snow surpasses,
Or ere they're worn, off, off they fly,
'Tis all to taverns and to lasses!

Stricken by torrential tsunami
Life has become devastated
Hope broken, wasted, and died
Devoid of ember, turning to ash.
Existence is finite, it goes
Such destiny is inevitable
Caught as victim of pain
Hurt, beaten to pieces.
Sought God's providence
Often in time of turbulence
But when life is abundance
We ignore His presence.
We have no time for God
When life so pleasant
But we cry so much
Upon tribulation.
And blame on Him
All our sufferings
For forsaking us
In death.

The deep cracks in the parched earth
Inflicted by the harsh rays of the sun
Lift their gaze on empty skies above
In hope of the heavenly flicker
That would rejuvenate them.
(22nd September 2006)

At first you will know not what they mean,
And you may never know,
And we may never tell you: --
These sudden flashes in your soul,
Like lambent lightning on snowy clouds
At midnight when the moon is full.
They come in solitude, or perhaps
You sit with your friend, and all at once
A silence falls on speech, and his eyes
Without a flicker glow at you: --
You two have seen the secret together,
He sees it in you, and you in him.
And there you sit thrilling lest the Mystery
Stand before you and strike you dead
With a splendor like the sun's.
Be brave, all souls who have such visions!
As your body's alive as mine is dead,
You're catching a little whiff of the ether
Reserved for God Himself.

Can people have faith in eachother?
Do creatures trust themselves?
Is faith overrated?
A lot of questions, so little time
F A I T H
to have faith
faith in the poor
faith in the rich
faith in the animals who have faith in us
live up to expectations
have faith that you'll make it to the end
Faith will be with you
Faith and destiny
is it the same?
Faith or destiny will show us
show you and show me..

Is it possible that we are so twisted
there is no salvation for any of us,
and that ideas have become wingless
in an age of winged rockets?
Is it possible that a crippled birch,
bending over to the last river,
will see the last man
in its boiling water?
Is it possible there’ll be no Big Ben,
Saint Basil’s, or Notre Dame
and that neutron foam will gush
over our final steps?
But that planet, cherry trees,
birds, and children will perish,
I don’t believe. This disbelief
is my final faith.
Skull after skull will not
be piled up in towers again.
The final Nuremberg approaches us
before, not after the war.
And the last soldier on earth
will throw his shoulder strap in a stream,
and watch how peacefully
dragonflies sit on it.
All rascality will end.
All people will understand-we are a family.
The last government
will abolish itself.
The last exploiter,
opening his toothless mouth,
will gobble the last money
furtively like a delicacy.
The last cowardly editor
will be doomed forever
to read from the stage in sequence
everything that he destroyed.
So that the last bureaucrat
can rest and be silent,
his gullet will be stuffed in payment
with the last rubber stamp.
And the earth will turn
without fear of the last years,
there never will be born
the last great poet.

I had faith in his word
And it failed me
I had faith in my friends
They left me
I had faith in the mirror
It shattered on me
I had faith in justice
It hurt me
I had faith in the world
It laughed at me
I had faith in my family
They turned their back on me
But I'm not disappointed in them
More of myself
You see I had faith in my strength
It crumbled before me
I had faith in my mind
It stopped working on me
I had faith in me
I failed on myself

766
My Faith is larger than the Hills—
So when the Hills decay—
My Faith must take the Purple Wheel
To show the Sun the way—
'Tis first He steps upon the Vane—
And then—upon the Hill—
And then abroad the World He go
To do His Golden Will—
And if His Yellow feet should miss—
The Bird would not arise—
The Flowers would slumber on their Stems—
No Bells have Paradise—
How dare I, therefore, stint a faith
On which so vast depends—
Lest Firmament should fail for me—
The Rivet in the Bands

I’m happy with whatev’r God does for me;
But others don’t agree to what I say;
I live in peace and total harmony;
My greed and earnings grow more day by day.
Show me O God a day when I’m secure;
My earthly wants increases endlessly;
Help me O God my suff’rings to endure;
I want to live a life more selflessly.
To keep soul pure is primary on earth;
The world may praise or chide me for my deeds;
God only cares for me ev’r since my birth;
I grow upright amidst the thorns and weeds!
God, be my light and drive all darkness out;
My faith in you should last without a doubt.
Copyright by Dr John Celes 5-9-2006

377
To lose one's faith—surpass
The loss of an Estate—
Because Estates can be
Replenished—faith cannot—
Inherited with Life—
Belief—but once—can be—
Annihilate a single clause—
And Being's—Beggary—

Her father was a smart dyslexic
but she was thin and anorexic.
The mother had a bad addiction
to gambling in her jurisdiction.
One brother used amphetamines
the other started in his teens
to rob and steal and even kill
it made the family quite ill.
One day the father, chaired a meeting
next day his daughter started eating.
The mother won a million bucks
one brother said this life, it sucks
the other changed identity
and ended thus his misery.
All five were favoured by the gods,
and, what the heck, they liked the odds.

A lady whose bosoms were big
allowed them to go to her head.
Lusted after by Fred, his mates, grandfather & Dad
& even the family dog who humped her leg.

By: Kevin Lam
Your family loves you
Whatever you do,
They love you when
You’re sad and they
Also love you when
You hate them.
Your family is gold;
Nothing can buy them
And nothing can buy
You away from your
Love with your family.
Your family will love
You even when you
Do stupid things
Such as, breaking your
Bones, doing drugs, or
Nearly killing yourself.
Your family won’t care
They will let it
Go and love you
More and more

What then you ask, might be a family
is it a bunch of people thrown together?
Or is it God's own plan up in his gallery
creating birds that share a common feather?
A new arrival, Spring's delicious bud
conceived through love as others have before
is placed into your arms, it is your blood.
a promise for your future, gypsy lore.
The winds of change are whispering to me
my sun remembers  where to send those rays
and when the darkness comes (when will it be?)
there always is the moon, he has his ways.

There was a spirit of friendly fellowship
In the Family Reunion Days of long ago
When the young and old gathered together
And softened the day's beautiful glow.
I can still detect a variety of odors
Of barbecue chicken, pie and cake
And the sizzling steaks on the grill,
Like the elderly members use to make.
I recollect the old timers telling stories
About how rough life use to be,
The Great Depression and lengthy war years,
Heartfelt accounts they seemed to me.
As the evening shadows began to deepen,
I always recited a simple, thankful prayer
For all the blessings, joys, and happiness
Our family was willing to share.

To be a part of a family like mine
is so divine
where love is shown
hurt is shared
our love for each other is never impaired
we talk
we laugh
we cry
but we are a family
and we do it all together
for as a family
we do it all as one
you hurt one
you hurt all
and as a family unit
we will all stand tall
for we are family
a family full of strength
a family full of love
a family no one can touch
that's why I love my family so much.

I.
I haven’t spoken to my brother in ten years.
His brain was slammed in a car accident,
never got any therapy because dad didn’t believe in it.
Somehow he came into some money
and spent it on surplus military vehicles,
which he leases to Hollywood from time to time.
II.
When my dad’s appendix burst, he didn’t know it,
tried to kill the pain with bourbon,
finally phoning me in delirious distress
and I called the ambulance.
My sister wouldn’t let the paramedics in.
The police came with a megaphone,
busted down the door.
III.
I hadn’t spoken to my alcoholic mother in 13 years
when a stranger called and said she was dying.
I flew to Chicago and spent the afternoon
at her comatose side telling her body
what I’d been doing for the last 13 years.
She died the next afternoon
while I was out getting a sandwich.

We bought an electric monkey, experimenting rather
recklessly with funds carefully gathered since
grandfather's time for the purchase of a steam monkey.
We had either, by this time, the choice of an electric
or gas monkey.
The steam monkey is no longer being made, said the monkey
merchant.
But the family always planned on a steam monkey.
Well, said the monkey merchant, just as the wind-up monkey
gave way to the steam monkey, the steam monkey has given way
to the gas and electric monkeys.
Is that like the grandfather clock being replaced by the
grandchild clock?
Sort of, said the monkey merchant.
So we bought the electric monkey, and plugged its umbilical
cord into the wall.
The smoke coming out of its fur told us something was wrong.
We had electrocuted the family monkey.

Family to me has many meanings
For all are full of diverse feelings
Love and anger, both within a single one
Children who stay and children who run
Can one family be better than another?
It all depends on how they love each other
A family’s love should last forever
Bonds of love nothing can sever
For the family I have, I am happy and blessed
And nothing more truthful have I ever confessed
Family has many meanings, but one rises above
The greatest meaning of family, is that of love

Dear Lord in Heaven, I hear your voice in the sounds of the falling rain.
I feel you Lord when the warm winds touch my face
I see you when I look at the stars high in the sky.
When no one else is near me Lord, I know you are standing by.
When I’m weak Father, you give me strength and when I’m blind
Father you find a way to make me see.
You are the wind that whispers through the swishing of trees,
the quiet still that lingers in the open sea.
You are the roar of thunder before the great rains fall.
You are the spring, summer, winter and fall.
My dear Father you are everything, you are my all.
The King of kings Lord, you sit on the great throne,
the giver of love and the taker of pain.
Father I will continue to worship you again and again.
I love you Father with all my heart and soul,
without you Father I would not be whole.
I ask Father God, that you stay within my heart
and walk with me to the end of my days.
When  you take me Father to cross that threshold
to everlasting life.  Please lead me on that glorious
path to Calvary where I may stand and live with thee.
Thank you Father God in the name of your precious
Son “Jesus”.  A men
Written:  Jan.13,2008

Holding the little finger of your hand,
Walking on the mounds of paddy field,
Watching the dancing of green weeds,
Like the cuscuta weed in tomato field;
Watching greenery in the wet sand,
Teaching me to pluck the parasitic weeds,
Like sparrow teaching young to pick seeds
Helping paddy to grow with a healthy blend
Taking me out everyday  morning,
For a long paddy field walking,
Sparking a practice of dreaming
To be focused on becoming something;
I owe you for what I am,
You taught me to be a man,
With values I will live till I am,
You took me around to show our world,
Like the Sun taking the planets around,
Whenever I needed, You were there around
Like the sun, moon, planets going round and round
Teaching virtues which were in you profound,
Like the Egyptian sphinx on a mountain mound,
Giving the  books of Jesus & Vivekananda
Helping me to find divine ananda,
In those ancient sermons of Vedas
And the verses of sage Sarvajna;

"There where that ray touches the plain
And the shadows escape as if they really ran,
Warsaw stands, open from all sides,
A city not very old but quite famous.
"Farther, where strings of rain hang from a little cloud,
Under the hills with an acacia grove
Is Prague. Above it, a marvelous castle
Shored against a slope in accordance with old rules.
"What divides this land with white foam
Is the Alps. The black means fir forests.
Beyond them, bathing in the yellow sun
Italy lies, like a deep-blue dish.
"Among the many fine cities that are there
You will recogni2e Rome, Christendom's capital,
By those round roofs on the church
Called the Basilica of Saint Peter.
"And there, to the north, beyond a bay,
Where a level bluish mist moves in waves,
Paris tries to keep pace with its tower
And reins in its herd of bridges.
"Also other cities accompany Paris,
They are adorned with glass, arrayed in iron,
But for today that would be too much,
I'll tell the rest another time

He never made a fortune, or a noise
In the world where men are seeking after fame;
But he had a healthy brood of girls and boys
Who loved the very ground on which he trod.
They thought him just little short of God;
Oh you should have heard the way they said his name –
‘Father.’
There seemed to be a loving little prayer
In their voices, even when they called him ‘Dad.’
Though the man was never heard of anywhere,
As a hero, yet somehow understood
He was doing well his part and making good;
And you knew it, by the way his children had
Of saying ‘Father.’
He gave them neither eminence nor wealth,
But he gave them blood untainted with a vice,
And opulence of undiluted health.
He was honest, and unpurchable and kind;
He was clean in heart, and body, and in mind.
So he made them heirs to riches without price –
This father.
He never preached or scolded; and the rod –
Well, he used it as a turning pole in play.
But he showed the tender sympathy of God.
To his children in their troubles, and their joys.
He was always chum and comrade with his boys,
And his daughters – oh, you ought to hear them say
‘Father.’
Now I think of all achievements ‘tis the least
To perpetuate the species; it is done
By the insect and the serpent, and the beast.
But the man who keeps his body, and his thought,
Worth bestowing on an offspring love-begot,
Then the highest earthly glory he was won,
When in pride a grown-up daughter or a son
Says ‘That’s Father.’

Father, part of his double interest
Unto thy kingdome, thy Sonne gives to mee,
His joynture in the knottie Trinitie
Hee keepes, and gives to me his deaths conquest.
This Lambe, whose death, with life the world hath blest,
Was from the worlds beginning slaine, and he
Hath made two Wills, which with the Legacie
Of his and thy kingdome, doe thy Sonnes invest.
Yet such are thy laws, that men argue yet
Whether a man those statutes can fulfill;
None doth; but all-healing grace and spirit
Revive againe what law and letter kill.
Thy lawes abridgement, and thy last command
Is all but love; Oh let this last Will stand!

Every old man I see
Reminds me of my father
When he had fallen in love with death
One time when sheaves were gathered.
That man I saw in Gardner Street
Stumbled on the kerb was one,
He stared at me half-eyed,
I might have been his son.
And I remember the musician
Faltering over his fiddle
In Bayswater, London,
He too set me the riddle.
Every old man I see
In October-coloured weather
Seems to say to me:
"I was once your father."

My mother was fortune, my father generosity and bounty; I
am joy, son of joy, son of joy, son of joy.
Behold, the Marquis of Glee has attainted felicity; this city and
plain are filled with soldiers and drums and flags.
If I encounter a wolf, he becomes moonfaced Joseph; if I go
down into a well, it converts into a Garden of Eram.
He whose heart is as iron and stone out of miserliness is now
changed before me into a Hatem of the age in generosity and
bounty.
Dust becomes gold and pure silver in my hand; how then
should the temptation of gold and silver waylay me?
I have an idol such that, were his sweet scent scattered
abroad, even an idol of stone would receive life through joy.
Sorrow has died for joy in him of “may God bind your consolation”;
how should not such a sword strike the neck of sorrow?
By tyranny he seizes the soul of whom he desires; justices are
all slaves of such injustice and tyranny.
What is that mole on that face? Should it manifest itself, out
of desire for it forthwith maternal aunt would be estranged from
paternal [uncle].
I said, “If I am done and send my story, will you finish it and
expound it?” He answered, “Yes.”

Dad,
A great many thanks for all you have done
Without you my life would not have begun
You have been there when I most needed you
You have helped to guide me my whole life through
We have shared both the good times and the bad
But most of all, thank you for being my dad
I love you
© 2011
father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father
fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers

Most truly honoured, and as truly dear,
If worth in me or ought I do appear,
Who can of right better demand the same
Than may your worthy self from whom it came?
The principal might yield a greater sum,
Yet handled ill, amounts but to this crumb;
My stock's so small I know not how to pay,
My bond remains in force unto this day;
Yet for part payment take this simple mite,
Where nothing's to be had, kings loose their right.
Such is my debt I may not say forgive,
But as I can, I'll pay it while I live;
Such is my bond, none can discharge but I,
Yet paying is not paid until I die.

Child of mine
Please never be afraid to fear
Fear the next book if you will
The next page or the last word
As terrifying as they may seem
But please never be afraid to fear
For it is the fear you free yourself to feel
That will serve you well

Therefore death to us
Is nothing, nor concerns us in the least,
Since nature of mind is mortal evermore.
And just as in the ages gone before
We felt no touch of ill, when all sides round
To battle came the Carthaginian host,
And the times, shaken by tumultuous war,
Under the aery coasts of arching heaven
Shuddered and trembled, and all humankind
Doubted to which the empery should fall
By land and sea, thus when we are no more,
When comes that sundering of our body and soul
Through which we're fashioned to a single state,
Verily naught to us, us then no more,
Can come to pass, naught move our senses then-
No, not if earth confounded were with sea,
And sea with heaven. But if indeed do feel
The nature of mind and energy of soul,
After their severance from this body of ours,
Yet nothing 'tis to us who in the bonds
And wedlock of the soul and body live,
Through which we're fashioned to a single state.
And, even if time collected after death
The matter of our frames and set it all
Again in place as now, and if again
To us the light of life were given, O yet
That process too would not concern us aught,
When once the self-succession of our sense
Has been asunder broken. And now and here,
Little enough we're busied with the selves
We were aforetime, nor, concerning them,
Suffer a sore distress. For shouldst thou gaze
Backwards across all yesterdays of time
The immeasurable, thinking how manifold
The motions of matter are, then couldst thou well
Credit this too: often these very seeds
(From which we are to-day) of old were set
In the same order as they are to-day-
Yet this we can't to consciousness recall
Through the remembering mind. For there hath been
An interposed pause of life, and wide
Have all the motions wandered everywhere
From these our senses. For if woe and ail
Perchance are toward, then the man to whom
The bane can happen must himself be there
At that same time. But death precludeth this,
Forbidding life to him on whom might crowd
Such irk and care; and granted 'tis to know:
Nothing for us there is to dread in death,
No wretchedness for him who is no more,
The same estate as if ne'er born before,
When death immortal hath ta'en the mortal life.
Hence, where thou seest a man to grieve because
When dead he rots with body laid away,
Or perishes in flames or jaws of beasts,
Know well: he rings not true, and that beneath
Still works an unseen sting upon his heart,
However he deny that he believes.
His shall be aught of feeling after death.
For he, I fancy, grants not what he says,
Nor what that presupposes, and he fails
To pluck himself with all his roots from life
And cast that self away, quite unawares
Feigning that some remainder's left behind.
For when in life one pictures to oneself
His body dead by beasts and vultures torn,
He pities his state, dividing not himself
Therefrom, removing not the self enough
From the body flung away, imagining
Himself that body, and projecting there
His own sense, as he stands beside it: hence
He grieves that he is mortal born, nor marks
That in true death there is no second self
Alive and able to sorrow for self destroyed,
Or stand lamenting that the self lies there
Mangled or burning. For if it an evil is
Dead to be jerked about by jaw and fang
Of the wild brutes, I see not why 'twere not
Bitter to lie on fires and roast in flames,
Or suffocate in honey, and, reclined
On the smooth oblong of an icy slab,
Grow stiff in cold, or sink with load of earth
Down-crushing from above.
"Thee now no more
The joyful house and best of wives shall welcome,
Nor little sons run up to snatch their kisses
And touch with silent happiness thy heart.
Thou shalt not speed in undertakings more,
Nor be the warder of thine own no more.
Poor wretch," they say, "one hostile hour hath ta'en
Wretchedly from thee all life's many guerdons,"
But add not, "yet no longer unto thee
Remains a remnant of desire for them"
If this they only well perceived with mind
And followed up with maxims, they would free
Their state of man from anguish and from fear.
"O even as here thou art, aslumber in death,
So shalt thou slumber down the rest of time,
Released from every harrying pang. But we,
We have bewept thee with insatiate woe,
Standing beside whilst on the awful pyre
Thou wert made ashes; and no day shall take
For us the eternal sorrow from the breast."
But ask the mourner what's the bitterness
That man should waste in an eternal grief,
If, after all, the thing's but sleep and rest?
For when the soul and frame together are sunk
In slumber, no one then demands his self
Or being. Well, this sleep may be forever,
Without desire of any selfhood more,
For all it matters unto us asleep.
Yet not at all do those primordial germs
Roam round our members, at that time, afar
From their own motions that produce our senses-
Since, when he's startled from his sleep, a man
Collects his senses. Death is, then, to us
Much less- if there can be a less than that
Which is itself a nothing: for there comes
Hard upon death a scattering more great
Of the throng of matter, and no man wakes up
On whom once falls the icy pause of life.
This too, O often from the soul men say,
Along their couches holding of the cups,
With faces shaded by fresh wreaths awry:
"Brief is this fruit of joy to paltry man,
Soon, soon departed, and thereafter, no,
It may not be recalled."- As if, forsooth,
It were their prime of evils in great death
To parch, poor tongues, with thirst and arid drought,
Or chafe for any lack.
Once more, if Nature
Should of a sudden send a voice abroad,
And her own self inveigh against us so:
"Mortal, what hast thou of such grave concern
That thou indulgest in too sickly plaints?
Why this bemoaning and beweeping death?
For if thy life aforetime and behind
To thee was grateful, and not all thy good
Was heaped as in sieve to flow away
And perish unavailingly, why not,
Even like a banqueter, depart the halls,
Laden with life? why not with mind content
Take now, thou fool, thy unafflicted rest?
But if whatever thou enjoyed hath been
Lavished and lost, and life is now offence,
Why seekest more to add- which in its turn
Will perish foully and fall out in vain?
O why not rather make an end of life,
Of labour? For all I may devise or find
To pleasure thee is nothing: all things are
The same forever. Though not yet thy body
Wrinkles with years, nor yet the frame exhausts
Outworn, still things abide the same, even if
Thou goest on to conquer all of time
With length of days, yea, if thou never diest"-
What were our answer, but that Nature here
Urges just suit and in her words lays down
True cause of action? Yet should one complain,
Riper in years and elder, and lament,
Poor devil, his death more sorely than is fit,
Then would she not, with greater right, on him
Cry out, inveighing with a voice more shrill:
"Off with thy tears, and choke thy whines, buffoon!
Thou wrinklest- after thou hast had the sum
Of the guerdons of life; yet, since thou cravest ever
What's not at hand, contemning present good,
That life has slipped away, unperfected
And unavailing unto thee. And now,
Or ere thou guessed it, death beside thy head
Stands- and before thou canst be going home
Sated and laden with the goodly feast.
But now yield all that's alien to thine age,-
Up, with good grace! make room for sons: thou must."
Justly, I fancy, would she reason thus,
Justly inveigh and gird: since ever the old
Outcrowded by the new gives way, and ever
The one thing from the others is repaired.
Nor no man is consigned to the abyss
Of Tartarus, the black. For stuff must be,
That thus the after-generations grow,-
Though these, their life completed, follow thee;
And thus like thee are generations all-
Already fallen, or some time to fall.
So one thing from another rises ever;
And in fee-simple life is given to none,
But unto all mere usufruct.
Look back:
Nothing to us was all fore-passed eld
Of time the eternal, ere we had a birth.
And Nature holds this like a mirror up
Of time-to-be when we are dead and gone.
And what is there so horrible appears?
Now what is there so sad about it all?
Is't not serener far than any sleep?
And, verily, those tortures said to be
In Acheron, the deep, they all are ours
Here in this life. No Tantalus, benumbed
With baseless terror, as the fables tell,
Fears the huge boulder hanging in the air:
But, rather, in life an empty dread of gods
Urges mortality, and each one fears
Such fall of fortune as may chance to him.
Nor eat the vultures into Tityus
Prostrate in Acheron, nor can they find,
Forsooth, throughout eternal ages, aught
To pry around for in that mighty breast.
However hugely he extend his bulk-
Who hath for outspread limbs not acres nine,
But the whole earth- he shall not able be
To bear eternal pain nor furnish food
From his own frame forever. But for us
A Tityus is he whom vultures rend
Prostrate in love, whom anxious anguish eats,
Whom troubles of any unappeased desires
Asunder rip. We have before our eyes
Here in this life also a Sisyphus
In him who seeketh of the populace
The rods, the axes fell, and evermore
Retires a beaten and a gloomy man.
For to seek after power- an empty name,
Nor given at all- and ever in the search
To endure a world of toil, O this it is
To shove with shoulder up the hill a stone
Which yet comes rolling back from off the top,
And headlong makes for levels of the plain.
Then to be always feeding an ingrate mind,
Filling with good things, satisfying never-
As do the seasons of the year for us,
When they return and bring their progenies
And varied charms, and we are never filled
With the fruits of life- O this, I fancy, 'tis
To pour, like those young virgins in the tale,
Waters into a sieve, unfilled forever.

Fear no more the heat o' the sun;
Nor the furious winter's rages,
Thou thy worldly task hast done,
Home art gone, and ta'en thy wages;
Golden lads and girls all must,
As chimney sweepers come to dust.
Fear no more the frown of the great,
Thou art past the tyrant's stroke:
Care no more to clothe and eat;
To thee the reed is as the oak:
The sceptre, learning, physic, must
All follow this, and come to dust.
Fear no more the lightning-flash,
Nor the all-dread thunder-stone;
Fear not slander, censure rash;
Thou hast finished joy and moan;
All lovers young, all lovers must
Consign to thee, and come to dust.
No exorciser harm thee!
Nor no witchcraft charm thee!
Ghost unlaid forbear thee!
Nothing ill come near thee!
Quiet consummation have;
And renowned be thy grave!

Fear of Love
Have you ever loved someone so much that fear takes control of every emotions.
Fear of loving.
Fear of losing that felling of floating on air.
Fear of one day hearing the words…goodbye…
How can love & fear be twisted in one so that you can't even tell them apart.
Maybe, loving means risking everything for that one person who makes you feel larger then life.
I feel that with you, fear.
Fear of feelings I promised myself I would not feel again.
Fear of giving myself to be hurt again.
Fear of saying goodbye and never loving again.
Where do I go from here?
Do I let my fear of not being enough drive me away?
Do I let go now and let fear win?
Do I hold on and allow fear to drive you away?
Or do I hold on and shut fear out and know that real love will win?
Whatever path our love leads us down one thing I know is true.
Your love had made me realize what it is to love so much that fear takes control.
Whether that is good or bad remains to be seen.
Love knows no time, no place, and no fear.
We do that on our own.
We try to reason something, love, that had no reasoning about it.
Always from a far I saw you.
Until one day you were there with warmth in you face I could not refuse.
Now you are the man I dream of.
A fear I never expected when I looked at you.
A love that lit like a candle in a dark still room.
In one flash you lighted my heart with warmth and fear.
I do not know if fear of losing you will win.
Or if I have the strength to hold on and wait for our love to flourish into a lifetime of security and happiness.
The one thing I do know is that my fear of losing you is my heart admitting that there is a part of you I hold dear.
And that is the love I feel for you growing each day.
-Fear of Love-

Fear of the unknown
is what makes me behind
Fear of tomorrow
is what makes me blind
Fear of the darkness
is what makes me seek the light
Fear of losing
is what makes me fight
Fear of pain
is what makes me insane
Fear of getting crushed
is what makes me struggle in vain
Fear of punishment
is what makes me flee
Fear of beasts
is what makes me a prey
Fear of destiny
is what makes me pray
Fear of time
is what makes my life a day
Fear of truth
is what makes me lie
Fear of life
is what makes me die
Fear of Fear
is what makes my life..
Too drear! !

I don't know fear
I once proclaimed
My heart is broken
My love is maimed
I know fear now
for i was shown
I am truly afraid
to be alone

543
I fear a Man of frugal Speech—
I fear a Silent Man—
Haranguer—I can overtake—
Or Babbler—entertain—
But He who weigheth—While the Rest—
Expend their furthest pound—
Of this Man—I am wary—
I fear that He is Grand—

I have no fear in death
I long for it
I find death for a child
Always looking for enjoyment
In what it kills
I have no fear in death
Death is what I can only see
But why, has it not come for me
It comes close but never comes for me
I have no fear in death
For death fears me

My awkward grossness grows: I go down, through
I maintain my self in the conviction
that I have as much to say as others
and more apposite ways of saying it
Certainly I feel it has all been said
The short fear is that even saying it
in my own way is equally pointless

Right down the shocked street with a
siren-blast
That sends all else skittering to the
curb,
Redness, brass, ladders and hats hurl
past,
Blurring to sheer verb,
Shift at the corner into uproarious gear
And make it around the turn in a squall
of traction,
The headlong bell maintaining sure and
clear,
Thought is degraded action!
Beautiful, heavy, unweary, loud,
obvious thing!
I stand here purged of nuance, my
mind a blank.
All I was brooding upon has taken
wing,
And I have you to thank.
As you howl beyond hearing I carry you
into my mind,
Ladders and brass and all, there to
admire
Your phoenix-red simplicity, enshrined
In that not extinguished fire.
Submitted by Robert Fish

How long will this go on?
Consumed daily by this passionate fire
...the way I tempt fate
tease the flame closer to my eager skin
I have taken this nameless obsession
and set it  to music
For each year that has passed
when my heart remained frozen
I have taken a vow
dedicating myself to the thawing
I feel, touch, taste each exquisite moment
Whether stolen or given as a gift
Mine now, to wrap in black velvet
keep as a treasure
One by one, I lit the candles
watched them burn
Blue, for my soul in turmoil
Red, for my one true love
Black, for that place unspoken
White....
I save for you alone
Although logic and history dispute this:
we will light it together on the darkest night
illuminate eachothers shadow
at the alter of my desire

For this you've striven
Daring, to fail:
Your sky is riven
Like a tearing veil.
For this, you've wasted
Wings of your youth;
Divined, and tasted
Bitter springs of truth.
From sand unslakèd
Twisted strong cords,
And wandering naked
Among trysted swords.
There's a word unspoken,
A knot untied.
Whatever is broken
The earth may hide.
The road was jagged
Over sharp stones:
Your body's too ragged
To cover your bones.
The wind scatters
Tears upon dust;
Your soul's in tatters
Where the spears thrust.

Fire in the heavens, and fire along the hills,
and fire made solid in the flinty stone,
thick-mass'd or scatter'd pebble, fire that fills
the breathless hour that lives in fire alone.
This valley, long ago the patient bed
of floods that carv'd its antient amplitude,
in stillness of the Egyptian crypt outspread,
endures to drown in noon-day's tyrant mood.
Behind the veil of burning silence bound,
vast life's innumerous busy littleness
is hush'd in vague-conjectured blur of sound
that dulls the brain with slumbrous weight, unless
some dazzling puncture let the stridence throng
in the cicada's torture-point of song.

The flame crackles,
Spitting shinning sparks
And ashes and fire
Into the warming air.
It’s always fighting,
It’s Always changing,
Seems always so close
To life.
To it’s burning,
But beyond it’s brilliance
The fire defies, denies
And defeats it’s death.
Patience, I believe,
Is learned in the view.
Because with strength and defiance,
The coals burn anew.

'Tis a fine Lady..,
I was connected too
Her words of poetry
Cut me right through
'Tis the Lady I chance
Cross a very thin line
Her sway of romance
melts my frozen heart..
Somehow, someway I am drawn to verse
It pulls me closer
absorbing my very soul
consuming my very being
Strangers...
though her words taught my mind
with an unspeakable desire..
for her golden hand I wish to hold
She is the ink
I long to be the paper
Oh write your words of passion
Upon my needing heart........
A fine Lady full of passion
Fulfilling the needs of my want
Ink meets paper, my world a fire
She..the Lady...Fills my desire..
Such Princess of passionate dream
Golden hand upon my cheek
such sweet gentle touch
Makes my soul so speak.....

What gory deaths by fire, we see today!
Gone is ‘sati’ but brides burn still by stove;
In accidents too, people die this way;
Self-immolate, some people out of love!
Air-crash victims get burnt like wood and hay;
Bomb-blasts produces smell of burning flesh;
Bus burns with men in pugilistic way!
And nuclear accidents too happen fresh.
A cracker-unit burns its children down;
A Temple-fire engulfs so many souls;
Some men are dowsed, lit live in a big town;
Fire-extinguishers have but scarcer roles.
’Tis strange to see why people burn alive!
What kind of pleasure, Satans such derive?

The great Chicago Fire, friends,
Will never be forgot;
In the history of Chicago
It will remain a darken spot.
It was a dreadful horrid sight
To see that City in flames;
But no human aid could save it,
For all skill was tried in vain.
In the year of 1871,
In October on the 8th,
The people in that City, then
Was full of life, and great.
Less than four days it lay in ruins,
That garden City, so great
Lay smouldering in ashes,
In a sad and pitiful state.
It was a sad, sad scene indeed,
To see the fire arise,
And hear the crackling of the flames
As it almost reached the skies,
And sadder still, to hear the moans,
Of people in the flames
Cry for help, and none could get,
Ah, die where they remained.
To see the people run for life;
Up and down the blazing streets,
To find then, their escape cut off
By the fiery flaming sheets,
And others hunting for some friend
That perhaps they never found,
Such weeping, wailing, never was known,
For a thousands miles around.
Some people were very wealthy
On the morning of the 10th.
But at the close of the evening,
Was poor, but felt content,
Glad to escape from harm with life
With friends they loved so well,
Some will try to gain more wisdom,
By the sad sight they beheld.
Five thousand people were homeless,
Sad wanderers in the streets,
With no shelter to cover them,
And no food had they to eat.
They wandered down by the lake side,
Lay down on the cold damp ground,
So tired and weary and homeless,
So the rich, the poor, was found.
Mothers with dear little infants,
Some clinging to the breast.
People of every description
All laid down there to rest,
With the sky as their covering,
Ah, pillows they had none.
Sad, oh sad, it must have been,
For those poor homeless ones.
Neighboring Cities sent comfort,
To the poor lone helpless ones,
And God will not forget them
In all the years to come.
Now the City of Chicago
Is built up anew once more,
And may it never be visited
With such a great fire no more.

Who falls into the fire shall burn with heat;
While those remote scorn from it to retreat.
Yea, while those in it, cry out, O! I burn,
Some farther off those cries to laughter turn.
Comparison.
While some tormented are in hell for sin;
On earth some greatly do delight therein.
Yea, while some make it echo with their cry,
Others count it a fable and a lie.

All my cat wants from me is food.
The only time his fickle mood...
...is pleasant in every way.
It is the only time of day...
...that he is nice, he does come near.
He wants his fancy feast. I hear...
...him coming round the corner now
I must feed him...my kitty cow.
Copyright 12-29-2008©® Sarah Sisson

'Beauty was made from her eyes.
Soon they move, I fly into the skies.
Your charming eyes are my light.
When truely at night I lose my sight.
Without their lights the moon.
Would be darkish quite soon.
Wherever I see your  eyes.
My heart stops his soul cries.
When I stray and go away.
By your eyes I find my way.
Your eyes'beauty feeds all.
Nature, human still their soul'.
'With every motion of your lip.
My heartbeats, they will whip.
Watching them when in  touch.
Inner love grows, oh! so much'.

Who is best skilled trained to prepare it?
Top chief on reality tv pack up your knives?
Where are best chiefs trained to thrive?
If best chief I wanted to be how would I plan?
By taking culinary as I had always planned.
In dedicated love to preparing cooking food.
Perhaps I might have finished
my associates in culinary arts
in San Francisco where I wanted
to sail into vibe city remembered
to wear a flower in my hair in hopes
of meeting very gentle people there.
Next to avoid that New York state of mind
I might have gone to Melbourne taking up
choice bachelor in culinary management.
For some fragile souls it’s just moving
getting used to standing up on own feet
walking into totally new environments.
The incredibly lucky retain parents support
financially in all aspects of love adored life.
The blessed cannot imagine how all those
who do not have parent support survive.
The truth many souls denied do not survive.
But you of sound mind good heart kind soul
you will be successful in whatever you do.
Imagine even among stress at highest levels
of your studies despite a few home grown
glorious extravagant egos you will want be
carried on one dream a beautiful restaurant
one day a beautiful dream in blessing taste.
Copyright © Terence George Craddock

Railway budget announced
Fares hiked
Petrol prices
Soaring high
Militants surrender
Rifles recovered
Kashmir issue
Curfew raised
Police fire tear-gas
Collector to visit
Government hospital tomorrow
Inspecting condition
New services
Deluxe buses inaugurated
Between Chennai and Trichy
Government announce
Nutrition meals
To children in asylum
Encroachment removed
Traffic smoothened
Heavy rain
Slums inundated
Power black-out
Grid units fail
Technicians in operation
People struggle
Normal life interrupted
Bilateral series
India won
Sachin scores double
All these and many more
Hot topics in today's debate
Men folks gather
Tea shops so crowded
Every news put to sword!

food is filling
food is fatting
food is good
food is plenty
food is provided by god

Give me some food
That provide and promote
My life vitality strength
Health happiness peace purity
Give me sweet and juicy
Give me ghee butter raisins
Give me some food
That I can eat drink lick and suck
O my dear, You are my best food
Without chanting your name
I can not live a moment
Come to me with food
And provide strength
To my heart and lungs
And with you I am cheerful.

I wanted a roast beef sandwich
So I found myself at the fridge
It turned out
The bacteria got to it before I did
I'm not putting that in my mouth
Nor should you
Don't let bacteria get to food before you

Yuck! Gross! I won't eat that
this food looks like a run over rat
it’s green and gross, kind of icky,
it smells like a sewer and is really sticky.
Nasty meat cooked half-way through
I think my face is turning blue,
I think this soup is twelve years old.
The fries aren't fried, they're still cold!
We know the school isn’t rich,
But they can’t give us cold dish.

She gave me the food of her love and,
It was like the crystal sea full of roses!
But i stood on the surface of the bronze sea to greet her,
For the gold of her love was like the beautiful butterflies!
Oh how sweet she was when i entered her,
For she remembered the words of her mother at last;
And the food of her love was fully prepared for me only.

Their jeans sparkled, cut off
way above the knee, and my
friends and I would watch them
from my porch, books of poems
lost in our laps, eyes wide as
tropical fish behind our glasses.
Their football flashed from hand
to hand, tennis shoes gripped
the asphalt, sweat's spotlight on
their strong backs. We would
dream of hugging them, and crouch
later in weird rooms, and come.
Once their ball fell our way
so two of them came over, hands
on their hips, asking us to
throw it to them, which Arthur did,
badly, and they chased it back.
One turned to yell, "Thanks"
and we dreamed of his long
teeth in our necks. We
wanted them to wander over,
place deep wet underarms to
our lips, and then their white
asses, then those loud mouths.
One day one guy was very tired,
didn't move fast enough,
so a car hit him and he sprawled
fifty feet away, sexy, but he was
dead, blood like lipstick, then
those great boys stood together
on the sidewalk and we joined them,
mixing in like one big friendship
to the cops, who asked if we were,
and those boys were too sad to counter.
We'd known his name, Tim, and how
he'd turned to thank us nicely
but now he was under a sheet
anonymous as God, the big boys crying,
spitting words, and we stunned
like intellectuals get, our high
voices soft as the tinkling of a
chandelier on a ceiling too high to see.

I took my little boy
to  a nearby football pitch
He said he was tired
of playing hide and seek
He now wanted a football
to play around and kick
As he clutched my hand
I spoke to him
and tried to make him understand
the eleven rules of football
taking into consideration
that he was quite small
Now rule number one
Football is made of eleven strong men
When one or two are naughty
you may still get away
with playing nine or ten
Rule number two
When a member of your crew
hits the ball into the net
A goal is scored
that I can place a bet
For I am very sure
Rule number three
The maximum number of players
you can substitute is three
It does not cost a dime
It is totally free
Rule number four
There are rules you must comply with
When a team commits an offense
named a foul
before the game can commence
A small advantage has to be given
to the otherside
Rule number five
A freekick
is given after a foul
Sometimes awarded after
unnecessary dives
Rule number six
When you are shown a card that is yellow
Its time for your temper to mellow
or you will get the referee quite mad
and he will dismiss you with a red card
Rule number seven
A penality is like heaven
It is awarded
when a player breaks the rule
maybe by using his hand as a tool
to play the ball inside the penalty box
its time for him to go back to school
Rule number eight
A thrownin
Is when the ball is kicked out of the field
It's one of footballs favorite sins
Rule number nine
Offside is
When you are the only one running
alone to score a winning goal
you must hesitate
till you see a single soul
Rule number ten
A game lasts
for ninety minutes
You are beat
When your team has less goals than the other
That is when you must admit defeat
Rule number eleven
when your team is losing
you have to sing something amusing
saying
All we want is a goal
While we are dressed in coloured charcoal
Now my little boy
I said
These are the eleven rules of football
lets go and practise inside the sports hall
Copyright 2005 - Sylvia Chidi

Like medieval knights
Armor clad, in fields battle
To reap victory
haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football

Football is my favorite game
I love to watch them play -
Those tightly muscled butts and legs
On an awesome autumn day;
How fluidly and gracefully
They dance across the green -
Such elegant contenders play
The best I've ever seen;
Some people think I'm crazy
The way I love the game -
But I'd rather be watching football
Than anything I can name;
Of course I may be prejudiced
I love my maise and blue -
That BIG 10 team that rules the league.............
You rock the Big House - BLUE! ! !

Football teaches you
teamwork; reaching goals in life
by striving to win

After dividing ourselves
And having dressed
In near angelic whiteness
Do we stroll upon the field
We shout our guttural cries
Ritual insults as required
By the customs of the game
The we gather to our respective sides
And with a kick of pigskin
We are off
Flurries of muck
Marking our trails
As we enthusastically charge
Throwing ourselves into fray
Bodies collide and fall
Sliding through the ooze
That we play upon
No one keeps score
For victory is not our aim
Merely to enjoy the day
Embracing each other at the end
Since no matter what went before
We are all the same color now
Having acheived a muddy equality
-STD '98

Oh wow! Seems like every channel has the exact same story,
The most storybook football program has tarnished it’s glory,
At the Mighty Penn State where the winningest coach resides,
Amidst allegations of child sexual abuse the emotions runs high.
Did he or did he not, why wasn’t more done to help protect?
Those in a program designed to rise above hurt and neglect,
Started by an assistance coach whose job was the defense,
Not designed to recruit the adolescent under false pretense.
Joe Paterno has the most football wins by a college coach,
Supposedly his 2 national title program is above reproach,
But, just like the sex abuse scandal within the Boy Scouts,
Along with that powerful Catholic Church, better look out.
The names of the innocent victims abused are at least nine,
And amazingly over a known period of 12-15 years time,
Not through innuendo, hearsay or speculation it was seen,
Yet like the Catholic Church more important was the green.
Again dead presidents again took priority over child welfare,
Under those in authority whose main responsibility is to care,
One 60-year-old man naked with a likewise 10-year-old boy,
Alone it the shower on campus, like a toddler with a new toy.
To do whatever he willed over the child unable to fight back,
How many times before & since helpless when under attack?
But wait this time there’s an eyewitness of the dastardly deed,
Still it’s to no avail because in athletics the bottom line is greed.
Many who knew actually lied to the Grand Jury, okay let’s see,
High-ranking officials resigned & the president of the university?
As the nation ponders who is the next to beheaded by the axe?
Explain why the focus is on football not victims, what a sad fact.
So, should the man who passed the buck be allowed to coach?
Is not the Cardinal who overlooked mass rape now the Pope?
We need a real life Terminator to protect kids like John Connor,
Those who have Arnold’s role failed miserably, Scout’s Honor.

Most of those who knew him thought he was not good enough
He could not measure up when the going  did get tough
In the Grand Final he wilted under pressure with the game to be won
When he could have become the town's favourite son.
On the final siren he did take the mark that should have won the game
And he had the chance for to make for himself a name
Thirty metres out straight in front of the posts his side two points down
Had he kicked a goal he'd be toast of the town.
His poorly placed kick slightly curled in the wind
And went through the one point posts to record a behind
From the opposition fans a thunderous roar
By a single point their team had kicked the winning score.
After that disappointment last September he gave football away
In his life's twenty first year he'll be twenty two in May
But the past it has gone can't keep a good one down
And this week he is the hero of the town.
At the fire in Donello's house a boy's cry for help he did hear
At the risk of great danger to his life he conquered the fear
He went into the flames and dragged nine year old Franscesco out
When true courage was needed his was not in doubt.
Mr and Mrs Donello lost their home to the fire but their son's life he did save
In the gap of danger only the bravest are brave
He saved a young life which is more important than all of the Grand Finals ever played
Yet for him for that there won't be a parade.

SUPER BOWL FOOTBALL
The stands are full of eager fans
Who say, we're paid too much money!
But if they would put our suits on
They'd find football isn't funny.
Twenty-two men and five referees
Chasing a pigskin, air filled ball.
Mashing and bashing all the way
Till the striped shirts whistle their call.
All the generals on the sideline
Are waging their athletic war.
And the letters in the words they use
Never amount to more than four.
There's no substitute for winning
And no excuse for losing.
Though after games; when we can't sleep
It's because of all the bruising.
AMERICAN SOLDIER POEM
It’s not a priest that gives us our freedom of religion
And it’s not a reporter that gives us our freedom of voice.
It’s not any judge, lawyer, politician, or teacher
But the blood of a soldier that has sacrificed by choice.
Our soldiers line up to be remembered
As the best of the best at their job.
They wish to be needed and depended on
To save all we love from the mob.
They risk their life and limb for liberty
Standing firm against evil unwilling to break.
To be part of something greater than themselves
They are willing to sacrifice whatever it will take.
Tom Zart’s 601 Poems Are Free To Share To Teach Or Show Love And Support!
By God’s Poet
Tom Zart
Most Published Poet
On The Web!
To Listen To Tom Zart’s Poems Go To =
http: //new.pivtr.com/en/? schedule/tom-zart/
www.billcrain.net/? musicpage.htm
http: //? www.veteranstodayforum.com/? viewforum.php? f=38

To stand forth in strength;
The strength of wisdom,
The strength of knowledge,
The strength of power,
The strength to stand tall,
The strength to say nay,
The strength to be proud,
To be strong, able and wise,
Down this road true freedom lies...

How delicious is the winning
Of a kiss at love's beginning,
When two mutual hearts are sighing
For the knot there's no untying!
Yet remember, 'Midst our wooing,
Love has bliss, but Love has ruing;
Other smiles may make you fickle,
Tears for other charms may trickle.
Love he comes, and Love he tarries,
Just as fate or fancy carries;
Longest stays, when sorest chidden;
Laughs and flies, when press'd and bidden.
Bind the sea to slumber stilly,
Bind its odour to the lily,
Bind the aspen ne'er to quiver,
Then bind Love to last for ever.
Love's a fire that needs renewal
Of fresh beauty for its fuel:
Love's wing moults when caged and captured,
Only free, he soars enraptured.
Can you keep the bee from ranging
Or the ringdove's neck from changing?
No! nor fetter'd Love from dying
In the knot there's no untying.

The night’s darkness falling
On the city of dreams
The drizzle that has been raining
For thousands of years
On the stone inscriptions*
The angel of night had this time
Brought stories of ancient love
In midst a thought like a jump
Of the small fish or a star blinking
Will like strength we have learned
In the books and the rituals of faith
To survive when we are hurt by times
In our certitude with destiny
The destiny of self that in the physical world
Is destined to disintegrate into the unknown
Only to survive in the realm of soul
And never to return back or we shall discover
And the demon of will
Like the consciousness of being
That takes us enchained
The night’s angel
Whispered into my ears
Yet another freedom
The Freedom from will
(On visiting Asoka’s stone inscriptions in Mansehra)
17/9/2008

(Translated from the French by Edouard Rodti)
My wife with the hair of a wood fire
With the thoughts of heat lightning
With the waist of an hourglass
With the waist of an otter in the teeth of a tiger
My wife with the lips of a cockade and of a bunch of stars of the last magnitude
With the teeth of tracks of white mice on the white earth
With the tongue of rubbed amber and glass
My wife with the tongue of a stabbed host
With the tongue of a doll that opens and closes its eyes
With the tongue of an unbelievable stone
My wife with the eyelashes of strokes of a child's writing
With brows of the edge of a swallow's nest
My wife with the brow of slates of a hothouse roof
And of steam on the panes
My wife with shoulders of champagne
And of a fountain with dolphin-heads beneath the ice
My wife with wrists of matches
My wife with fingers of luck and ace of hearts
With fingers of mown hay
My wife with armpits of marten and of beechnut
And of Midsummer Night
Of privet and of an angelfish nest
With arms of seafoam and of riverlocks
And of a mingling of the wheat and the mill
My wife with legs of flares
With the movements of clockwork and despair
My wife with calves of eldertree pith
My wife with feet of initials
With feet of rings of keys and Java sparrows drinking
My wife with a neck of unpearled barley
My wife with a throat of the valley of gold
Of a tryst in the very bed of the torrent
With breasts of night
My wife with breasts of a marine molehill
My wife with breasts of the ruby's crucible
With breasts of the rose's spectre beneath the dew
My wife with the belly of an unfolding of the fan of days
With the belly of a gigantic claw
My wife with the back of a bird fleeing vertically
With a back of quicksilver
With a back of light
With a nape of rolled stone and wet chalk
And of the drop of a glass where one has just been drinking
My wife with hips of a skiff
With hips of a chandelier and of arrow-feathers
And of shafts of white peacock plumes
Of an insensible pendulum
My wife with buttocks of sandstone and asbestos
My wife with buttocks of swans' backs
My wife with buttocks of spring
With the sex of an iris
My wife with the sex of a mining-placer and of a platypus
My wife with a sex of seaweed and ancient sweetmeat
My wife with a sex of mirror
My wife with eyes full of tears
With eyes of purple panoply and of a magnetic needle
My wife with savanna eyes
My wife with eyes of water to he drunk in prison
My wife with eyes of wood always under the axe
My wife with eyes of water-level of level of air earth and fire

I set myself free
From the shackles in my heart
To the schackles on my legs
No more will I suffer
No more will I endure.
Your jealousy
Your envy
Your insecurity
I will live my life
As I see fit.
I set myself free

Freedom frees my dictionary
In my brain.. I keep the words
For every thing serious and real
The words that could change my life
In my heart.. I keep the words that
Describe me when I’m lonely,
When I’m happy or sad,
When I’m in love or broken
In my body.. I keep the words
For my health, physics and sex
In my soul.. I keep the words that
I can give to god
And thank him for every thing he gave me
Unfortunately I cant use any of those words! ?
Because in the last tow years
I have lost the word “freedom” from my dictionary
It had been captured by the dearest to me..
My freedom is locked in a big cage, full of doors
I’ve tried to free my freedom
But non of the doors was opening
I wanted to tell them release my freedom
But I just couldn’t say anything! !
I’m a prisoner because I lost my word “freedom”
I’m struggling and fighting inside of me to return my freedom
I’m in a war
Looking in silence and preying to gad! !
Those are my only weapons to send my freedom free
Every night I shed tears
But no one can hear me
I have lost my freedom
And I’m loosing me? ! ? !

freedom
no choice
as to who i am

Of old sat Freedom on the heights,
The thunders breaking at her feet:
Above her shook the starry lights:
She heard the torrents meet.
There in her place she did rejoice,
Self-gather'd in her prophet-mind,
But fragments of her mighty voice
Came rolling on the wind.
Then stept she down thro' town and field
To mingle with the human race,
And part by part to men reveal'd
The fulness of her face--
Grave mother of majestic works,
From her isle-altar gazing down,
Who, God-like, grasps the triple forks,
And, King-like, wears the crown:
Her open eyes desire the truth.
The wisdom of a thousand years
Is in them. May perpetual youth
Keep dry their light from tears;
That her fair form may stand and shine,
Make bright our days and light our dreams,
Turning to scorn with lips divine
The falsehood of extremes!

when you come
with a knife
I wish to be killed
you kicked,  and  left for ever
a betrayel
a sad cry
and left here
nobody looks
sadly, she come with a pale rose
she  knows
they say
we must fight to keep our freedom

There's nane that's blest of human kind,
But the cheerful and the gay, man,
Fal, la, la, &c.
Here's a bottle and an honest friend!
What wad ye wish for mair, man?
Wha kens, before his life may end,
What his share may be o' care, man?
Then catch the moments as they fly,
And use them as ye ought, man:
Believe me, happiness is shy,
And comes not aye when sought, man.

A friend sends her perfumed carriage
And high-bred horses to fetch me.
I decline the invitation of
My old poetry and wine companion.
I remember the happy days in the lost capital.
We took our ease in the woman's quarters.
The Feast of Lanterns was elaborately celebrated -
Folded pendants, emerald hairpins, brocaded girdles,
New sashes - we competed
To see who was most smartly dressed.
Now I am withering away,
Wind-blown hair, frost temples.
I prefer to stay beyond the curtains,
And listen to talk and laughter
I can no longer share.

'Be like water, my friend, be like water,
Don’t be rigid; just go with a flow...'
'Be like water' - you asked me. 'Don't hold to me.
I am leaving, so please let me go.'
'Water is shapeless, my friend, water is flowing
Water is moving; and it cannot die...
It may freeze sometimes, when it gets too cold,
But you know, the spring will arrive.'
***
I’m becoming shapeless, I’m becoming fluid,
I am listening to what you say...
I got frozen, my friend, by your sudden coldness
But I’m finding through cracks my new way.
***
Now I am floating, again. I am glowing.
I’m reflecting the sun and the sky...
And sometimes the clouds. And the wind is blowing...
I’m already far away...Just stopped to wave 'Good Bye! '
October 6,2005

Ah, Posthumus!  our years hence fly
And leave no sound:  nor piety,
Or prayers, or vow
Can keep the wrinkle from the brow;
But we must on,
As fate does lead or draw us; none,
None, Posthumus, could e'er decline
The doom of cruel Proserpine.
The pleasing wife, the house, the ground
Must all be left, no one plant found
To follow thee,
Save only the curst cypress-tree!
--A merry mind
Looks forward, scorns what's left behind;
Let's live, my Wickes, then, while we may,
And here enjoy our holiday.
We've seen the past best times, and these
Will ne'er return; we see the seas,
And moons to wane,
But they fill up their ebbs again;
But vanish'd man,
Like to a lily lost, ne'er can,
Ne'er can repullulate, or bring
His days to see a second spring.
But on we must, and thither tend,
Where Ancus and rich Tullus blend
Their sacred seed;
Thus has infernal Jove decreed;
We must be made,
Ere long a song, ere long a shade.
Why then, since life to us is short,
Let's make it full up by our sport.
Crown we our heads with roses then,
And 'noint with Tyrian balm; for when
We two are dead,
The world with us is buried.
Then live we free
As is the air, and let us be
Our own fair wind, and mark each one
Day with the white and lucky stone.
We are not poor, although we have
No roofs of cedar, nor our brave
Baiae, nor keep
Account of such a flock of sheep;
Nor bullocks fed
To lard the shambles; barbels bred
To kiss our hands; nor do we wish
For Pollio's lampreys in our dish.
If we can meet, and so confer,
Both by a shining salt-cellar,
And have our roof,
Although not arch'd, yet weather-proof,
And cieling free,
From that cheap candle-baudery;
We'll eat our bean with that full mirth
As we were lords of all the earth.
Well, then, on what seas we are tost,
Our comfort is, we can't be lost.
Let the winds drive
Our bark, yet she will keep alive
Amidst the deeps;
'Tis constancy, my Wickes, which keeps
The pinnace up; which, though she errs
I' th' seas, she saves her passengers.
Say, we must part; sweet mercy bless
Us both i' th' sea, camp, wilderness!
Can we so far
Stray, to become less circular
Than we are now?
No, no, that self-same heart, that vow
Which made us one, shall ne'er undo,
Or ravel so, to make us two.
Live in thy peace; as for myself,
When I am bruised on the shelf
Of time, and show
My locks behung with frost and snow;
When with the rheum,
The cough, the pthisic, I consume
Unto an almost nothing; then,
The ages fled, I'll call again,
And with a tear compare these last
Lame and bad times with those are past,
While Baucis by,
My old lean wife, shall kiss it dry;
And so we'll sit
By th' fire, foretelling snow and slit
And weather by our aches, grown
Now old enough to be our own
True calendars, as puss's ear
Wash'd o'er 's, to tell what change is near;
Then to assuage
The gripings of the chine by age,
I'll call my young
Iulus to sing such a song
I made upon my Julia's breast,
And of her blush at such a feast.
Then shall he read that flower of mine
Enclosed within a crystal shrine;
A primrose next;
A piece then of a higher text;
For to beget
In me a more transcendant heat,
Than that insinuating fire
Which crept into each aged sire
When the fair Helen from her eyes
Shot forth her loving sorceries;
At which I'll rear
Mine aged limbs above my chair;
And hearing it,
Flutter and crow, as in a fit
Of fresh concupiscence, and cry,
'No lust there's like to Poetry.'
Thus frantic, crazy man, God wot,
I'll call to mind things half-forgot;
And oft between
Repeat the times that I have seen;
Thus ripe with tears,
And twisting my Iulus' hairs,
Doting, I'll weep and say, 'In truth,
Baucis, these were my sins of youth.'
Then next I'Il cause my hopeful lad,
If a wild apple can be had,
To crown the hearth;
Lar thus conspiring with our mirth;
Then to infuse
Our browner ale into the cruse;
Which, sweetly spiced, we'll first carouse
Unto the Genius of the house.
Then the next health to friends of mine.
Loving the brave Burgundian wine,
High sons of pith,
Whose fortunes I have frolick'd with;
Such as could well
Bear up the magic bough and spell;
And dancing 'bout the mystic Thyrse,
Give up the just applause to verse;
To those, and then again to thee,
We'll drink, my Wickes, until we be
Plump as the cherry,
Though not so fresh, yet full as merry
As the cricket,
The untamed heifer, or the pricket,
Until our tongues shall tell our ears,
We're younger by a score of years.
Thus, till we see the fire less shine
From th' embers than the kitling's eyne,
We'll still sit up,
Sphering about the wassail cup,
To all those times
Which gave me honour for my rhymes;
The coal once spent, we'll then to bed,
Far more than night bewearied.

There is a miracle called in friendship
That miracle of friendship brought you
as my dearest friend
I have so many friends
but you are the only one impressed in my mind and heart
I know you are the most valuable gift for me
and it's my pleasure to have you as my dear friend
Your friendship is a precious gift to be cherished and natured
Your friendship is reflect on me who you are
There are so many friends come and go
but precious friend like you I can hold on it
You are like a star very far from me
but I know you are there for me
I can remember some one told me that
'Friends are born but not made'
Yes, we are born for each other
Let me be what I know best
my friend that's always known ' my best friend'.

My groom and friend came from afar.
I kiss your feet!
He drew his circle around me.
I kiss your hands!
Light seems to set the world apart.
I kiss your armor!
And earth's idols do not attract me.
I kiss your wings!
The yoke of love is light and sweet.
I kiss your shoulders!
Your brand is burned upon my heart.
I kiss your lips!

Blue mountains lie beyond the north wall;
Round the city's eastern side flows the white water.
Here we part, friend, once forever.
You go ten thousand miles, drifting away
Like an unrooted water-grass.
Oh, the floating clouds and the thoughts of a wanderer!
Oh, the sunset and the longing of an old friend!
We ride away from each other, waving our hands,
While our horses neigh softly, softly . . . .

Who prop, thou ask'st in these bad days, my mind?--
He much, the old man, who, clearest-souled of men,
Saw The Wide Prospect, and the Asian Fen,
And Tmolus hill, and Smyrna bay, though blind.
Much he, whose friendship I not long since won,
That halting slave, who in Nicopolis
Taught Arrian, when Vespasian's brutal son
Cleared Rome of what most shamed him. But be his
My special thanks, whose even-balanced soul,
From first youth tested up to extreme old age,
Business could not make dull, nor passion wild;
Who saw life steadily, and saw it whole;
The mellow glory of the Attic stage,
Singer of sweet Colonus, and its child.

Well then; the promis'd hour is come at last;
The present age of wit obscures the past:
Strong were our sires; and as they fought they writ,
Conqu'ring with force of arms, and dint of wit;
Theirs was the giant race, before the Flood;
And thus, when Charles return'd, our empire stood.
Like Janus he the stubborn soil manur'd,
With rules of husbandry the rankness cur'd:
Tam'd us to manners, when the stage was rude;
And boisterous English wit, with art endu'd.
Our age was cultivated thus at length;
But what we gained in skill we lost in strength.
Our builders were, with want of genius, curst;
The second temple was not like the first:
Till you, the best Vitruvius, come at length;
Our beauties equal; but excel our strength.
Firm Doric pillars found your solid base:
The fair Corinthian crowns the higher space;
Thus all below is strength, and all above is grace.
In easy dialogue is Fletcher's praise:
He mov'd the mind, but had not power to raise.
Great Jonson did by strength of judgment please:
Yet doubling Fletcher's force, he wants his ease.
In differing talents both adorn'd their age;
One for the study, t'other for the stage.
But both to Congreve justly shall submit,
One match'd in judgment, both o'er-match'd in wit.
In him all beauties of this age we see;
Etherege's courtship, Southern's purity;
The satire, wit, and strength of manly Wycherly.
All this in blooming youth you have achiev'd;
Nor are your foil'd contemporaries griev'd;
So much the sweetness of your manners move,
We cannot envy you because we love.
Fabius might joy in Scipio, when he saw
A beardless Consul made against the law,
And join his suffrage to the votes of Rome;
Though he with Hannibal was overcome.
Thus old Romano bow'd to Raphael's fame;
And scholar to the youth he taught, became.
Oh that your brows my laurel had sustain'd,
Well had I been depos'd, if you had reign'd!
The father had descended for the son;
For only you are lineal to the throne.
Thus when the State one Edward did depose;
A greater Edward in his room arose.
But now, not I, but poetry is curs'd;
For Tom the second reigns like Tom the first.
But let 'em not mistake my patron's part;
Nor call his charity their own desert.
Yet this I prophesy; thou shalt be seen,
(Tho' with some short parenthesis between
High on the throne of wit; and seated there,
Not mine (that's little) but thy laurel wear.
Thy first attempt an early promise made;
That early promise this has more than paid.
So bold, yet so judiciously you dare,
That your least praise, is to be regular.
Time, place, and action, may with pains be wrought,
But genius must be born; and never can be taught.
This is your portion; this your native store;
Heav'n that but once was prodigal before,
To Shakespeare gave as much; she could not give him more.
Maintain your post: that's all the fame you need;
For 'tis impossible you should proceed.
Already I am worn with cares and age;
And just abandoning th' ungrateful stage:
Unprofitably kept at Heav'n's expense,
I live a rent-charge on his providence:
But you, whom ev'ry muse and grace adorn,
Whom I foresee to better fortune born,
Be kind to my remains; and oh defend,
Against your judgment your departed friend!
Let not the insulting foe my fame pursue;
But shade those laurels which descend to you:
And take for tribute what these lines express:
You merit more; nor could my love do less.

A frog, beautiful greenish mixed color
While in search of its food trapped in a pipe
A drainage pipe for easy flow of rain
There he imagined well grown insects
A safe hideout to catch the prey
And eat well and himself to become fat
Then going to his habitat to tell the story
The achievement, nourishing food and all
And to marry a beautiful bride
To live with it in happy days ahead
His ambitions were big and attempts accurate
Enough to eat he got from the drain pipe
There he became lazy and got asleep
Often sang the songs in loud without mistake
Showed his vigor to attract the female
Then came the ill luck in the form of owner
The house owner perturbed on blockage of pipe
The rain water stagnated in the compound
Unable to know the reason and took a stick
Slowly he tried to pierce it through the drain
With pain and fear the frog tried to escape
But alas another side there waits a snake
The song of the frog attracted it, to swallow
The unusual predicament on his trapped stand
However it escaped after a while in care
The mystery is all is not well always careful.

You reminded me
of the first ever FROG
I dissected
gave it enough chloroform
and put it to sleep
then saweach and every part within
once I sealed it up
I cried out to miss
ma'am it is not awaking
then she told me
now it never will
I felt devastated
and
at time I came to know
NOGod does exist
We are ourselves destroyers
only
what God can life now give
none could answer me
Can any spiritualist ye
but don't relay theory
we have already heard it

Frog-dance,
Let me see
the frog-dance
and get pleasure.
Let me see
where the dancer is.
And how it is
being performed
before all.
The style of
frog-dance I
like most, my dear.
But I failed to locate
the frog and also the dancer.

look at the frog so small and cute
top to tail in his green suite
never dry not always wet
every child wants one for a pet
only the newt for a friend
swim in the pond from end to end
deep under water breath held tight
look at him swim such a delight
hear him call all through the night
a prince in waiting a king by right
leaping high jumping long
for his size he is so strong
from lilly pads he loves to hop
as he hits the water plip plip plop
see him catch the fly swallow swallow
with a blink of his eyes gobble gobble
look at the frog so small and cute
top to tail in his green suite

I fell in love with a frog,
who was sitting alone on the banks of the Nile,
mooning over the premature decease of his beautiful wife.
He was sobbing his heart out,
his lips convulsed with woe, dripping emotion,
his chin atremble, the words buried in a raven black but deafening silence.
I instantly knew he was the find of my ultimate search for love.
A bathos unknown to those seeking earthly pleasures,
a poignancy knocking vulgarity off its temporal pedestal.
My dear love, dearest of all other loves,
my love for this frog, please become a wreath
a halo, a redemptive power to soothe all pain

This snake was eyeing a frog for his lunch
They struck at each other with a crunch
It was a stand off
A solution was far off
For both of them was unable to munch

The Dog, the Frog, and the Hog
All met while jogging in fog.
‘Twas quite coincidental,
Simply accidental:
That serendipitous meet
In pea soup, trainers on feet.
Still, now they are friends
And all rather fit;
Those comrades in shorts
And wonderfully knit!
Copyright © Mark R Slaughter 2012

I heard a strange noise, very loud
Between the high shinning grass
Which looked like a very tall crowd
In a green ceremonial mass
I searched for the noisy source
And to my surprise I found
A frog dancing with incredible force
On the hard, soiled ground
The emerald frog shook his left leg
Spun around and waved his arms
Hopped twice like he was about to beg
And croaked loud, causing many alarms
He shook his hip 'round and 'round
And sang out loud with all his might
Between the grass, on the ground
The frog danced, Oh what a sight!

I 'd like to speak, told me a frog
about this shadow in the fog
this shadow that is following us
without haste, hurry, or rush
I 'd like to speak, but its forbidden
to tell and to reveal the end
of  a story never read
never begun and never written.

They have arrived again my friend!
To be with us again
To claim bond of relations with the deceased
As if they were blood bond relatives with the fallen blood
You see, with their crocodile faces and tears they landed
Pretending to be generous.
With their uncircumcised heart and coordinated prayers
They smell what the fallen brother has left.
Look at their leaking mouth
For the visit of death erects their ears.
This poem tells how people go for burial or funeral with their different motives and interests especially in Africa.

I often tell my beloved,
Please adorn me with beautiful,
Jasmine flowers.
Like a lovely bride, I should look.
Once, I had long shining silky hair,
And I loved to wear jasmine flowers,
But I cut my hair short.
But don't be stingy
Tuck jasmine flowers only, in my hair.
Cover me with kanjeepuram sari only,
Else I will question you.
As I love to look today,
Like a beautiful bride.
Cover me with full of fragrance,
As I love perfumes,
My eyes to be beautifully drawn with,
Eye Liner.
Of course, be careful as it may hurt me too.
No lipstick as I don't like.
Yeah but scented talcum powder would be fine for me.
And one big bindi on my forehead.
And a small sandal wood paste on top of it.
I should look like a beautiful bride.
Ain't I?
Don't wake up the bride.
She is in her deep sleep....
Let her sleep!
Note..In this poem, I portrayed a scene of a woman whose husband fulfils her last death wishes. Like a bride she was decorated and taken for funeral. Thats why I said last lines...let her sleep...
©ALL RIGHTS RESERVED BY GEETHA JAYAKUMAR 2014
© 2014.
Geetha Jayakumar.

By his side, whose days are past,
Lay bow and quiver!
And his eyes that stare aghast
Close, with a shiver.
God nor man from Death, at last,
Love may deliver.
Though, of old, we vowed, my dear,
Death should not take him;
Mourn not thou that we must here
Coldly forsake him;
Shed above his grave no tear,
Tears will not wake him.
Cupid lieth cold and dead,
Ended his flying,
Pale his lips, once rosy-red,
Swift was his dying.
Place a stone above his head,
Turn away, sighing.

Dust unto dust,
To this all must;
The tenant hath resign'd
The faded form To waste and worm-
Corruption claims her kind.
Through paths unknown
Thy soul hath flown,
To seek the realms of woe,
Where fiery pain
Shall purge the stain
Of actions done below.
In that sad place,
By Mary's grace,
Brief may thy dwelling be
Till prayers and alms,
And holy psalms,
Shall set the captive free.

I want to have my funeral
But first I need to die
But not an ordinary death
You see
I want one filled of surprise
One death that no one would expect
One that’ll beat the rest
Of the
Out of the ordinary deaths
A death that will show the pain I hide
One that will make people tremble inside
To see that a little girl could hide
So much trouble and hate inside her mind
One that’ll have me on a bed
With rose petals all around my head
My wrist all cut up at the vein
A death that’ll make me look insane
It’ll have them saying
“maybe she hit her head”
For the death expressed too much
And set a feeling of depressed
Maybe a death
That’ll have written on my chest
All the things that “you knew best”
All the things I failed to see
Because they never were facing me
A death is called a tragedy
But not when nobody can see
That the tragedy was meant to be
Like the sun is meant to set each day
And how the moon never seems to stay

Eighty years of life
on this Earth
Was it worth?
I had a thought on your funeral.
Eighty years ago in heaven
when you were just the soul
and wanted to forever become
a part of this whole
You urged God to grant you a life
And promised
you would this time achieve your goal
But did you keep your promise at all?
I had a thought on your funeral.
The aim of your taking birth was
Service, contribution and asceticism
You instead chose
Hoarding, platitude and hedonism
God prescribed
Love, joy and compassion
On your life you inscribed
Jealousy, gloom and repression
I had a thought on your funeral.
Childhood’s dawn wiped out in dependence
Lust devoured on the morning of adolescence
Youth’s noon you squandered
due to fear and apprehension
Dusk of old age got totaled in
egotism, vanity and pretension
I had a thought on your funeral.
I asked myself
Was I any different from you?
Was I keeping my own promise to God?
The response from within came in negative
My heart did not give the nod
Seeing you sleeping in God’s lap
with a performance that was dismal
Your funeral appeared to me
as God’s signal
And I realized I had a chance to change
before I reached my own burial.
I had a thought on your funeral.
(30.08.2011; New Delhi; India)

I attended the funeral of your dear one.
I heard your loud sobbing and screaming
As the coffin of your deceased husband
was carried out from the church aisle.
The black limousine was waiting outside
The caretaker looked at his watch
Each one picked up a white rose and
laid it on the coffin of your dear one.
Still the undertaker looked at you and waited;
You held on to the coffin and would not
Let the limousine drive off your husband-
to the burning heat of the crematorium.
The undertaker started the engine
You stood still sobbing, speaking and moaning
You drowned your heart in anguish so deep
But the funeral service should be culminated.
And the coffin was taken away by that black limousine
With a weak voice, you called, “Please come back”.
And you continued to sob without let up
The sting of death crushed your heart.
And there you stood with the presence
and comfort of your family and friends
No longer alone or bereft in the world
You were surrounded by those who wept
with you, who  stood beside you,
waiting when your anguish could subside.
______________________
Funeral of Frannie’s husband, September 5,2015

'Twas in the year of 1888, and on the 19th of November,
Which the friends of the late Ex-Provost Rough will long remember,
Because 'twas on the 19th of November his soul took its flight
To the happy land above, the land of pure delight.
Take him for all in all, he was a very good man,
And during his Provostship he couldn't be equalled in Great Britain,
Which I proclaim to the world without any dread,
Because while Provost he reduced the public-houses to three hundred.
Whereas at the time there were 620 public-houses in the town,
But being a friend of the temperance cauae he did frown,
Because he saw the evils of intemperance every day
While sitting on the bench, so he resolved to sweep public-houses away.
And in doing so the good man, in my opinion, was right,
Because the evils of intemperance is an abomination in God's sight;
And all those that get drunk are enemies to Him,
Likewise enemies to Christ's kingdom, which is a great sin.
The late Ex-Provost Rough was President of the Dundee Temperance Society,
An office which he filled with great ability;
Besides Vice-President of the Scottish Temperance League for many years,
And no doubt the friends of temperance for his loss will shed tears.
Because many a hungry soul he relieved while in distress,
And for doing so I hope the Lord will him bless,
For his kindness towards the poor people in Dundee,
Besides for his love towards the temperance cause, and his integrity.
And when the good man's health began to decline
The doctor ordered him to take each day two glasses of wine,
But he soon saw the evil of it, and from it he shrunk,
The noble old patriarch, for fear of getting drunk.
And although the doctor advised him to continue taking the wine,
Still the hero of the temperance cause did decline,
And told the doctor he wouldn't of wine take any more,
So in a short time his spirit fled to heaven, where all troubles are o'er.
I'm sure very little good emanates from strong drink,
And many people, alas! it leads to hell's brink!
Some to the scaffold, and some to a pauper's grave,
Whereas if they would abstain from drink, Christ would them save.
'Twas on Friday afternoon, in November the 23rd day,
That the funeral cortege to the Western Cemetery wended its way,
Accompanied by the Magistrates, and amongst those present were-
Bailie Macdonald and Bailie Black, also Lord Provost Hunter I do declare.
There were also Bailie Foggie, Bailie Craig, and Bailie Stephenson,
And Ex-Provost Moncur, and Ex-Provost Ballingall representing the Royal Orphan Institution;
Besides there were present the Rev. J. Jenkins and the Rev. J. Masson,
With grief depicted in their faces and seemingly woe-begone.
There were also Mr Henry Adams, representing the Glover trade,
Also Mr J. Carter, who never was afraid
To denounce strong drink, and to warn the people from it to flee,
While agent of the Temperance Society in Dundee.
And when the funeral cortege arrived at the Western burying-ground,
Then the clergyman performed the funeral service with a solemn sound;
While from the eyes of the spectators fell many a tear
For the late Ex-Provost Rough they loved so dear.
And when the coffin was lowered into its house of clay,
Then the friends of the deceased homewards wended their way,
Conversing on the good qualities of the good man,
Declaring that the late Ex-Provost Rough couldn't be equalled in Great Britain.

She collected the deceased from the mortuary
She washed the body down seeing the body peacefully free
Then she dressed the body in what 'The family' had chose
Now dressed so bright, holding a RED rose
She then collected an upstanding coffin that was lined along the wall...
Carefully placing it on a pedestal
So ready to drill the handles and line the coffin with lace
Then engraving the name plate at a steady pace
She then went back to the body and with family instructions
She added powder, blush then a little lipstick on
Then with 6 steady hands, placed her in
Into her pure white coffin where there would be only sleep ins
The 6 steady hands placed the body for the family to see
They all cried and cried... just could not believe
Could not believe she was gone and here no more
They knew they had to accept even though they were raw
The grieving Funeral Director had arranged the funeral as she knew how to do
She had placed the Funeral Notices and Ordered the flowers too
At the Cemetery Gate she walked and smiled in front of the Hearse
In Gods garden she was practising her verse
Her verse of hope and support that she would read to the family today
A verse to help them accept, there is no other way
So the reading went well..., the music had played
Family so happy they said: 'I wish not  to see you again... I'm afraid! '
*****************
This Grieving Funeral Director took a little sadness with her from each Funeral. Yet the pure satisfaction she received from helping these Grieving families was so well worth it.
Copyright Reserved May 2014
LYN PAUL

adria moya, hmm you do not like your name to be written in the poem
the problem with me is that
i am hardheaded and i am the kind of boy who does what mother
does not like me to do
i am naughty and so here i am
in all my mischief
adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny?
hahahaha hahahaha hahahaha hahahaha hahahaha hahahaha hahahaha ha
do you see the train of hahahaha
come let us ride on it and forget the sad things of our lives
i will make another one the train of
tralalatralalatralalatralalatralalatralal atralalatralalatralalatralalatralalatralalatralal atralalatralalatralala
it is the train of dance and laughter
come, come, come,
let us be there, what is the use of being what they want you to be?
the place is here and it must be a place of fun and laughter
and something so divine later.

Damn the skirt that had me fell.
Never drool at bawdy damsels,
have a way with magic spells.
Turn you topsy and do pell-mell.
Darn, twisted foot that had me bent.
Showed my behind, a strategic rent.
Blithely swaying, her hand she lent.
In a hoarse report my airs were vent.
Poof! She mocked'n touched her lips.
Shifted weight to jiggle her hips.
Looked I up in an awkward gaze.
Allowed my self a feigned daze.
Hush I gawked at the straining zips.
Torso taut and wow! Jutting tips.
Saw me feast and tossed her head.
Woosh! There went, a tangle of red.
Silence fell as everyone looked.
Oh me gosh, now she's booked.
Mere stubble, on a balding crop.
Without her wig, what a flop!
Devious eyed, I eased my ‘self'
So did, all the gnomes and elf!
By this time, the crowd was near.
Shifty eyes now showed her fear.
Amid loud hoots and raunchy jeers.
Leather boots and bubbling beers.
Woe be gone and half in tears.
Stomped her feet and showed her rear.
(Islamabad)
(Vintage  1996…from files)

Its funny how hello is alway accompanied with goodbye,
Its funny how good memories can start to make you cry.
Its funny how forever never really seems to last,
Its funny how much you'd lose if you forgot about your past.
Its funny how 'friends' can just leave you when your down,
Its funny how when you need someone their never around.
Its funny how people change and think they're so much better,
Its funny how many lies can be packed into one 'love letter'.
Its funny how people forgive even though they cant forget,
Its funny how one night can contain so much regret.
Its funny how ironic life turns out to be,
But the funniest part of all...
Is that none of thats funny to me

Happy Morning kids, I said
Monday morning sir, they giggled
I too smiled saying good one
They winked saying which one
Then I gazed and asked one
Asked, What is your dream?
Kid, sorry no day dreams
I nodded and asked again
So what’s your night dream?
Kid, to not wet my bed
I asked one more kid
Who is the king of forest?
Kid, the king is King Kong
What about lion? I said
Kid, lion lives in zoo
I asked one cute bud
Why monkeys live on trees?
Kid, all monkeys lost keys
Why donkeys work hard?
Kid, all donkeys work for don
Tell why this hens crow?
Why dogs bark? I asked
Then the bell rang loud
Kids ran saying alarm sound
I too left saying funny kids

It's funny how hello is always accompanied with goodbye
It's funny how good memories can start to make you cry
It's funny how forever never seems to really last
It's funny how much you'd loose if you forgot about your past
It's funny how friends can just leave you when you're down
It's funny how when you need someone they're never around
It's funny how people can change and think they're so much better
It's funny how many lies can be packed in one ''love letter''
It's funny how people can forgive even though they can't forget
It's funny how one night can contain so much regret
It's funny how ironic life turns out to be,
But the funniest part,
Is that none of it is funny...
To me.

Funny how the very ones who
say they carry the light, also
bear the responsibility for causing
most of the pain in the world.
Funny how the loudest whiners
are the fanciest diners at the
buffet of humanity.
Funny how the rich are exempt
and the poor breed contempt;
how the nations with the most to give
play the best game of politics
supplying the weaponry that
eventually kills
even their own children.
Funny isn’t it how the world works
with its upside down righteousness
and its lawful in-justice, while
all the best parts of mankind are being
sucked out through the holes in the ozone
or dissolved completely in the furnace of
unrestrained industry, avarice and greed.
It’s a funny world alright;
funny how nobody’s laughing.

Isn’t it funny how all of a sudden you care
But when we were together you were never there
Isn’t it funny how to make me jealous you’re with her
But when you see me with him, everything starts to blur
Isn’t it funny how you want me to miss you
But when we were together, other girls you’d pursue
Isn’t it funny how you think of me when you’re alone at night
When im across the street in his arms wrapped up tight
Isn’t it funny how you sit there thinking of me
While im in the sky, completely carefree
Isn’t it funny how much the tables have turned
I hope from all this, SOMETHING, you have learned

Santa goes into his son`s room to wish him goodnight. His son is having a nightmare - Santa wakes him and asks his son if he is OK? The son replies he is scared because he dreamt that his aunt had died. Santa assures the son that Auntie is fine and sends him to bed.
The next day, Auntie dies. One week later, Santa again goes into his son`s room to wish him goodnight. His son is having another nightmare - Santa again wakes his son. The son this time says that he had dreamt that his grandmother had died. The father assures the son that she is fine and sends him to bed.
The next day, grandmother dies. One week later, Santa again goes into his son`s room to wish him goodnight. His son is having another nightmare, he again wakes his son. The son this time says that he had dreamt that his daddy had died. The father assures the son that he is OK and sends the boy to bed.
Santa goes to bed but cannot sleep because he is so terrified. The next day, Santa is scared for his life- he is sure is going to die. After dressing he drives very cautiously to work fearful of a collision. He doesn`t eat lunch because he is scared of food poisoning. He avoids everyone for he is sure he will somehow be killed. He jumps at every noise, starts at every movement and hides under his desk.
After days work, upon walking in his front door, he finds his wife, Jeeto, 'Good God, Dear, ' he proclaims, 'I`ve just had the worst day of my entire life! '
Jeeto responds, 'You think your day was bad, this morning my ex-boyfriend dropped dead on the front steps! '

A server was a man with drinks
A Notebook was where you write
A click was done with fingers
And a reboot means you had a fight
Cyberspace was where the spaceships went
A screen saver was a cinema's bodyguard
Traffic only happened in cars
And Spam always had a lot of lard
Java was a type of bean
Hacking was what an axe-man's job,
A platform was where you sang
And a volley was a type of lob
Scan was to read really fast
A Moniter was a teacher
A shortcut was a dangerous way
And Shout-Outs done by preachers
Meg was the name of my girlfriend,
And gig was a job for the nights.
Now they all mean different things,
And that really mega bytes.
An application was for employment.
A program was a TV show.
A cursor used profanity.
A keyboard was a piano.
Memory was something that you lost with age.
A CD was a bank account.
And if you had a 3 inch floppy,
You hoped nobody would ever find out.
Compress was something you did to the garbage,
Not something you did to a file,
And if you unzipped anything in public
You'd be in jail for a while.
Log on was adding wood to the fire.
Hard drive was a long trip on the road.
A mouse pad was where a mouse lived,
And a backup happened to your commode.
Cut you did with a pocket knife.
Paste you did with glue.
A web was a spider's home,
And a virus was the flu.
I guess I'll stick to my pen and paper,
And the memory in my head.
I hear nobody's been killed in a computer crash,
But when it happens they wish they were dead!

Under the ring of linked brown arms,
bare feet, brown feet with whiter soles
drum on the dusty, hard brown earth, stomp the rhythm
as if to wake the gods of earth
to draw the rain down to the roots,
caressing seeds against the growing time,
hearing the tears at the heart of things;
hearing the shuffle-clank
of leg irons listening for some rhythm that consoles
with promise; hearing the blues sung softly, like a prayer,
taken up across the cotton field,
sadness meeting hope in longing patience
and  a century ago
the white lady who loved Africa said,
I am weary with the future
*
white boy, you’re so young –
how could you hear the blues so well?
are they just around the corner
of every town that’s built, as dusk descends?
Do they lurk wherever lips meet plangent trumpet,
in the reeds of mourning clarinet,
the nostalgia of a dreaming saxophone?
Wherever future whispers to the past
and hears the sad reply?
white boy, white boy without a past,
you hear the blues so well,
I think you hear
those future blues,
those old white future blues,
those lonesome future blues.

The year is 2285
Everyone is getting high
It’s all about high profile
To live is to die
No more prison and trial
A free world to compile
All your sins will fly
The judgment is yours to consider
Money for nothing to ponder
Distance yourself further
No retreat and no surrender
The going will get wilder
The tough will get weaker
The ozone layer became thinner
The icebergs had landed
Low lying lands became embedded
Like thrusting a knife that is jagged
Seems like most parts are flooded
Highlands are barricaded
Population intakes are limited
To survive is to be restricted
Who’s the poor and who’s the richest?
It’s a taboo to say and yet superstitious
To be in power would be the strongest
Sharing your power could be the longest
To live that long is tremendous
And the poor would become notorious
To be left out as the monotonous
Global warming has taken its toll
It’s not like walking in the park to stroll
The heat could penetrate even your soul
No more south and north pole
Your best next home is in the hole

A memory or two
Returning...reappearing
Surprisingly entering our hearts again
Not the same...always rearranged
Haunting and intriguing
Living and dying
Pushing and pulling
Remembering togetherness
Moments of shared hearts
In the midst of isolation
Remembering that we were
Not alone
No longer applying
Such long forgotten
Traces of feeling and thought
Never again will our lives
Be as they were
A future uncertain...
With unknown duration
Past reflected as if present
Selecting each moment
Wondering...searching for meaning
Past changing...as the future
Takes hold of us

Look to the future
Detach from the past
Let the people go
Start a new this time
Look to the future
Love like it’ll last
Dream like it’s forever
No move envy
Look to the future
Have the star life
Learn from others
Take it in
Look to the future
Be proud with yourself
No more lies
No more disguises
Look to the future
Solve the unresolved
Be someone’s firefly
Stop living for yourself
Look to the future
Be the person
You dream to be
Stop fantasizing
Look to the future
It’s only gets brighter
From here on out
Detach from the past
Look to the future

im a little confused right now so in other words im not really sure
if i can slow down or even stop my past becoming my future
i can  see it comin a mile away
what can i do? what can i say?
who even cares seriously cause in all reality im not even sure that i do..
i try and try to do the right thing
but it just feels like stress and more stress is all it brings
now i want you to realize that this is not written and this one is off he top of my head
maybe im havin a bad day and i need to vent
or maybe its somethin someone said...
im good though i feel better already...
and thats the magic of poetry...

Sometimes…..I travel back to my past,
Down the memory lanes.
I find myself alone, lost in vain,
I see myself struggling, to live in this world,
With pain in my heart, that I could never tell in words.
I looked for a shoulder, which could give me support,
But no one heard me and passed on to their roads,
Than you walked in, with a wonderful smile,
This gave me strength and love for life,
The touch of your hand and your talking eyes,
Made me sure, it is you for whom my heart cries.
Sometimes…I look in to my present,
With my eyes wide open,
‘cause I never thought it would happen,
My worries have gone & I have lost my pain,
All I’ve got is luv and your smile like a Summer Rain,
The power of love and the strength of your words,
Has made me eager to live in this world,
Smile on your lips and happiness in your eyes,
This is all where my world lies.
Sometimes….I look in to the future
With dreams in my eyes,
Kissing your lips at every sunrise
I see you with me wrapped in my arms,
Giving you love and all the charms,
‘cause you are the one who has changed my life,
So I always dream you as my loving wife,
Now I always wish to forget my past,
& luv you forever until my breath last,
I pray to God may my dreams come true,
& I could always tell that “I Love You”.

The Flowers of the Future
-At present you plant a seed of truth, for your beautiful blossoms of the future
I am a diligent gardener,
Who walked into your heartland by chance,
I saw the large land out of cultivation,
Seems there has not been a spring for a long time.
So I said,
'Let's cultivate here a little. Make it a lawn.'
You said impatiently,
'Forget it! You are wasting your effort.'
I smiled,
'Let's grow some flowers here and make it a garden.'
You hesitated and said,
'Forget it. I don't see any meaning in it.'
I drew your hand to me and put a seed in it, a sparkling seed with fantastic splendour.
'This seed is called Truth.
It can blossom into the most beautiful flower in the world.'
Curiosity flashed through your eyes,
'The most beautiful flower in the world? '
'Yes, people call that flower Future! '
Then I held your hands and planted the fantastic seed in the land.
The Truth then took root, sprouted, and had its first leaf.
You were so happy, you watered and fertilised it everyday.
You blocked the wind and kept the rain off
Just like this,
Together with the seed,
You went through the chilly spring, hot summer, desolate fall and piercingly cold winter.
When the last chill in the wind faded,
The seed of Truth had its first bud.
You were so excited that you could not sleep for nights.
Waiting aside for the flower to burst
Finally, on that unusual morning,
Butterflies dancing over the grass,
Birds singing on the branches,
The bud burst into a flower,
So beautiful and moving.
The splendour of Truth suddenly cast colourful lights upon the meadow.
You clapped your hands and shouted loudly,
'Hurry up and look, Gardener.
Our Truth has blossomed.
How beautiful is our Future! '
However, the Gardener had already left quietly, leaving the beautiful Future for you.
Later, the meadow became a garden, with beautiful flowers of Future all over.
You named the garden a pleasant name:
'Future Garden'
Will you still occasionally think of me, the gardener?
If so, just whisper my name.
I will definitely hear you.
I will quietly stand above the clouds,
And look at you with smile.
By a practitioner in China

What does the future hold for us?
Smog filled skies and poison cars,
And broken land with useless dust
And nature’s beauty behind bars.
Can I ever show my children,
(If they ever come my way)
The beauty of a sunset
At the ending of the day?
Can I walk into a forest,
And surround myself with trees,
Yet know that it will remain,
For me to visit as I please.
I know that I can today
Do all the things I’ve said,
But when today is yesterday,
Will all these things be dead?
This problem is enormous
As we gradually take heed,
So we must fix it quickly,
Using words and thoughts and deeds.'

I've had a good innings time has left me gray
The future belongs to the youth of today
Allow them their passion for time hurries by
As life is for to live well and for to enjoy,
Our biological time clocks on our lives are ticking away
And though wisdom comes with ageing some are known to say
And though credit should be given to whoever it's due
No fool like an old fool can also be true,
Allow the youth their passion allow them to dream
Though reality in their eyes may not be what it seem
In the eyes of a child one in their twenties is one who looks old
We believe all we see but not all we are told
And though for saying it many may say of me that I am wrong
The youth to the future will always belong.

Let go of the past
and look to the future
come on and move on
dust yourslf off and try again
If you hav failed many times
And sat 'I give up'
remember this saying
and it will help you too:
'Let go of the past
and loot to the future.'

Wow! I would love a girl,
a girl who is an individual,
who doesn’t just fall in the crowd,
who doesn’t just do what her friends do.
Someone who is real ya’ know,
that might be too much to ask,
but it just seems every girl I know,
has never done something on there own,
done anything for themselves,
or truly ever wanted be somebody else.
If I could find a girl like that,
they might just be worth getting,
but until that day, good luck girls,
try not to be so fake!

Some say I may just be
Stretching my wings.
“Oh don’t worry, she’s just
Stretching her wings.
Yes, she’ll settle down soon.”
No—no, you see,
This is an explosion inside
One of the best of it’s kind.
No—no, you see,
I’m learning to fly.

Flavius, unless your delights
were tasteless and inelegant,
you’d want to tell, and couldn’t be silent.
Surely you’re in love with some feverish
little whore: you’re ashamed to confess it.
Now, pointlessly silent, you don’t seem to be
idle of nights, it’s proclaimed by your bed
garlanded, fragrant with Syrian perfume,
squashed cushions and pillows, here and there,
and the trembling frame shaken,
quivering and wandering about.
But being silent does nothing for you.
Why? Spread thighs blab it’s not so,
if not quite what foolishness you commit.
How and whatever you’ve got, good or bad,
tell us. I want to name you and your loves
to the heavens in charming verse.

Now, money was scarce and work was slack
And love to his heart Crept in,
And he rode away on the Northern track
To war with the world and win;
And he vowed by the locket upon his breast
And its treasure, one red gold curl,
To work with with a will in the fartherest West
For the sake of his Gippsland girl.
The hot wind blows on the dusty plain
And the red sun burns above,
But he sees her face at his side again,
And he strikes each blow for love.
He toils by the light of one far-off star
For the winning of one white pearl,
And the swinging pick and the driving bar
Strike home for the Gippsland girl.
With an aching wrist and a back that's bent,
With salt sweat blinding eyes,
'Tis little he'd reek if his life were spent
In the winning so grand a prize.
His shear blades flash and over his hand
The folds of the white fleece curl,
And all day long he sticks to his stand
For the love of his Gippsland girl.
When the shearing's done and the shed's cut out
On Barwon and Narran and Bree;
When the shearer mates with the rouseabout
And the Union man with the free;
When the doors of the shanty, open wide,
An uproarious welcome hurl,
He passes by on the other side
For the sake of his gippsland girl.
When summer lay brown on the Western Land
He rode once more to the South,
Athirst for the touch of a lily hand
And the kiss of a rosebud mouth;
And he sang the songs that shorten the way,
And he envied not king or earl,
And he spared not the spur in his dappled grey
For the sake of his Gippsland girl.
At the garden gate when the shadows fell
His hopes in the dusk lay dead;
'Nelli? Oh! Surely you heard that Nell
Is married a month' they said.
He spoke no word; with a dull, dumb pain
At his heart, and his brain awhirl
He turned his grey to the North again
For the sake of his Gippsland girl.
And he rung the board in a Paroo shed
By the sweat of his aching brow,
But he blued his cheque, for he grimly said,
'There is nothing to live for now.'
And out and away where the big floods start
And the Darling dust-showers swirl,
There's a drunken shearer who broke his heart
Over a Gippsland girl!
William H Ogilvie

I've seen you many times in many places--
Theater, bus, train, or on the street;
Smiling in spring rain, in winter sleet,
Eyes of any hue in myriad faces;
Midnight black, all shades of brown your hair,
Long, short, bronze or honey-fair.
Instantly have I loved, have never spoken;
Slowly a truck passed, a light changed,
A door closed--all seemingly pre-arranged--
Then you were gone forever, the spell was broken.
Ubiquitios only one, we've met before
A hundred times, and we'll meet again
As many more; in hills or forest glen,
On crowded street or lonely, peaceful shore;
Somewhere, someday--but how will we ever know
True love, how wil we ever know?

That pretty girl--
munching and rustling
the wrapped-up rice cake.
Translated by Robert Hass

once upon a time there was a little girl.
she liked to sit outside at night and talk to the moon.
everynight she kept the moon company.
one night she noticed the moon seemed tired, so
she climbed upon the roof, to tell the moon a secret.
the old moon smiled, so she reaches up
takes the moon in her hands and puts him in her pocket.
then she climbs down and goes into her house, up the stairs
to her room.there she takes the moon out and lets lay on
her bed.for hours they talked, told secrets and giggled.
then they heard people asking where the moon was.
outside was so dark, they couldnt find their ways.
the old moon says to the little girl
'maybe you should put me back into the sky,
so the people can find their way home at night'.
the little girl agreed.so she picks up the moon,
puts him back into her pocket.
she walks downstairs and goes outside.
it was very dark, but she wasnt afraid,
she had her friend the moon to help
show her the way.
she climbs back upon the roof, takes the moon out
of her pocket. holding him with both hands
she tells the moon'i love you,
we will still talk every night, but you must go back
give people light at nightime'.
she leans over kisses the moon goodnight.
then reaches back and tosses the moon
hard as she could back into the
nightime sky.
then the little girl and the moon hear, all the people
shouting and laughing.
after everything quietened down
the stars who were so happy the moon returned
all gave the moon kisses.
the little girl climbed down
with the moon lighting her way
went inside up to her room
took 1 last peek out
blowing the moon a big kiss goodnight.

Back of my back, they talk of me,
Gabble and honk and hiss;
Let them batten, and let them be-
Me, I can sing them this:
"Better to shiver beneath the stars,
Head on a faithless breast,
Than peer at the night through rusted bars,
And share an irksome rest.
"Better to see the dawn come up,
Along of a trifling one,
Than set a steady man's cloth and cup
And pray the day be done.
"Better be left by twenty dears
Than lie in a loveless bed;
Better a loaf that's wet with tears
Than cold, unsalted bread."
Back of my back, they wag their chins,
Whinny and bleat and sigh;
But better a heart a-bloom with sins
Than hearts gone yellow and dry!

So, watch this space
there will be more,
and, just in case
others adore
the one who is
by way of soul
in this small quiz
her luscious whole.
I shall reveal
in time that's due.
I broke the seal
only for you.

That lover of a night
Came when he would,
Went in the dawning light
Whether I would or no;
Men come, men go;
All things remain in God.
Banners choke the sky;
Men-at-arms tread;
Armoured horses neigh
In the narrow pass:
All things remain in God.
Before their eyes a house
That from childhood stood
Uninhabited, ruinous,
Suddenly lit up
From door to top:
All things remain in God.
I had wild Jack for a lover;
Though like a road
That men pass over
My body makes no moan
But sings on:
All things remain in God.

GOD gave to me a child in part,
Yet wholly gave the father's heart:
Child of my soul, O whither now,
Unborn, unmothered, goest thou?
You came, you went, and no man wist;
Hapless, my child, no breast you kist;
On no dear knees, a privileged babbler, clomb,
Nor knew the kindly feel of home.
My voice may reach you, O my dear-
A father's voice perhaps the child may hear;
And, pitying, you may turn your view
On that poor father whom you never knew.
Alas! alone he sits, who then,
Immortal among mortal men,
Sat hand in hand with love, and all day through
With your dear mother wondered over you.

In his malodorous brain what slugs and mire,
Lanthorned in his oblique eyes, guttering burned!
His body lodged a rat where men nursed souls.
The world flashed grape-green eyes of a foiled cat
To him. On fragments of an old shrunk power,
On shy and maimed, on women wrung awry,
He lay, a bullying hulk, to crush them more.
But when one, fearless, turned and clawed like bronze,
Cringing was easy to blunt these stern paws,
And he would weigh the heavier on those after.
Who rests in God's mean flattery now? Your wealth
Is but his cunning to make death more hard.
Your iron sinews take more pain in breaking.
And he has made the market for your beauty
Too poor to buy, although you die to sell.
Only that he has never heard of sleep;
And when the cats come out the rats are sly.
Here we are safe till he slinks in at dawn
But he has gnawed a fibre from strange roots,
And in the morning some pale wonder ceases.
Things are not strange and strange things are forgetful.
Ah! if the day were arid, somehow lost
Out of us, but it is as hair of us,
And only in the hush no wind stirs it.
And in the light vague trouble lifts and breathes,
And restlessness still shadows the lost ways.
The fingers shut on voices that pass through,
Where blind farewells are taken easily ....
Ah! this miasma of a rotting God!

I sometimes wonder if the mighty God
Cares aught about the little deeds of men;
And if their day and time can reach his ken
Or raise their breath above the hungry sod.
Does He who lightly holds th' eternal rod,
Now taut, now loose, the threads of Why and When?
Giving passing heed--or be they one or ten--
To one-time flesh but now the wind-blown clod?
If men can die who never yet knew life,
And, smiling, hold it is no strange affair;
Or live when death were welcome boon of strife,
Torn, broken sheaves the ghostly reapers spare;
The saints must grieve for earthly sorrows rife,
And God must heed, yea surely, God must care.

Nearer, my God, to Thee,
Nearer to Thee!
E'en though it be a cross
That raiseth me:
Still all my song shall be
Nearer, my God! to Thee,
Nearer to Thee.
Though, like the wanderer,
The sun gone down,
Darkness be over me,
My rest a stone;
Yet in my dreams I'd be
Nearer, my God, to Thee,
Nearer to Thee.
Then let the way appear
Steps unto heaven;
All that Thou sendest me
In mercy given:
Angels to beckon me
Nearer, my God, to Thee,
Nearer to Thee.
Then with my waking thoughts
Bright with Thy praise,
Out of my stony griefs
Bethel I'll raise;
So by my woes to be
Nearer, my God, to Thee,
Nearer to Thee.
Or if on joyful wing,
Cleaving the sky,
Sun, moon, and stars forgot,
Upward I fly:
Still all my song shall be,
Nearer, my God, to Thee,
Nearer to Thee.

Will God for ever east us off?
His wrath for ever smoke
Against the people of' his love,
His little chosen flock?
Think of the tribes so dearly bought
With their Redeemer's blood;
Nor let thy Zion be forgot,
Where once thy glory stood.
Lift up thy feet and march in haste,
Aloud our ruin calls;
See what a wide and fearful waste
Is made within thy walls.
Where once thy churches prayed and sang,
Thy foes profanely roar;
Over thy gates their ensigns hang,
Sad tokens of their power.
How are the seats of worship broke!
They tear the buildings down,
And he that deals the heaviest stroke
Procures the chief renown.
With flames they threaten to destroy
Thy children in their nest;
"Come, let us burn at once," they cry,
"The temple and the priest."
And still, to heighten our distress,
Thy presence is withdrawn;
Thy wonted signs of power and grace,
Thy power and grace are gone.
No prophet speaks to calm our woes,
But all the seers mourn;
There's not a soul amongst us knows
The time of thy return.
How long, eternal God, how long
Shall men of pride blaspheme?
Shall saints be made their endless song,
And bear immortal shame?
Canst thou for ever sit and bear
Thine holy name profaned?
And still thy jealousy forbear,
And still withhold thine hand?
What strange deliv'rance hast thou shown
In ages long before !
And now no other God we own,
No other God adore.
Thou didst divide the raging sea
By thy resistless might,
To make thy tribes a wondrous way,
And then secure their flight.
Is not the world of nature thine,
The darkness and the day?
Didst thou not bid the morning shine,
And mark the sun his way?
Hath not thy power formed ev'ry coast,
And set the earth its bounds,
With summer's heat, and winter's frost,
In their perpetual rounds?
And shall the sons of earth and dust
That sacred power blaspheme?
Will not thy hand that formed them first
Avenge thine injured name?
Think on the cov'nant thou hast made,
And all thy words of love;
Nor let the birds of prey invade,
And vex thy mourning dove.
Our foes would triumph in our blood,
And make our hope their jest;
Plead thy own cause, Almighty God,
And give thy children rest.

Much wonder I--here long low-laid -
That this dead wall should be
Betwixt the Maker and the made,
Between Thyself and me!
For, say one puts a child to nurse,
He eyes it now and then
To know if better 'tis, or worse,
And if it mourn, and when.
But Thou, Lord, giv'st us men our clay
In helpless bondage thus
To Time and Chance, and seem'st straightway
To think no more of us!
That some disaster cleft Thy scheme
And tore us wide apart,
So that no cry can cross, I deem;
For Thou art mild of heart,
And would'st not shape and shut us in
Where voice can not he heard:
'Tis plain Thou meant'st that we should win
Thy succour by a word.
Might but Thy sense flash down the skies
Like man's from clime to clime,
Thou would'st not let me agonize
Through my remaining time;
But, seeing how much Thy creatures bear -
Lame, starved, or maimed, or blind -
Thou'dst heal the ills with quickest care
Of me and all my kind.
Then, since Thou mak'st not these things be,
But these things dost not know,
I'll praise Thee as were shown to me
The mercies Thou would'st show!

The laws of God, the laws of man,
He may keep that will and can;
Not I: let God and man decree
Laws for themselves and not for me;
And if my ways are not as theirs
Let them mind their own affairs.
Their deeds I judge and much condemn,
Yet when did I make laws for them?
Please yourselves, say I, and they
Need only look the other way.
But no, they will not; they must still
Wrest their neighbor to their will,
And make me dance as they desire
With jail and gallows and hell-fire.
And how am I to face the odds
Of man's bedevilment and God's?
I, a stranger and afraid
In a world I never made.
They will be master, right or wrong;
Though both are foolish, both are strong.
And since, my soul, we cannot fly
To Saturn nor to Mercury,
Keep we must, if keep we can,
These foreign laws of God and man.

Vote us oh God, dear God,
Rate us oh God, dear God,
Save us oh save us God,
Sprinkle thy mercy on us!
Rate us with resistance power,
Vote us with wonderful vaccine,
All atheists have turned,
They are planning to transform,
Atheists were running behind wealth,
Leaving you and your rules,
Atheists were planning to destroy
But you preserve your garden,
You rightly keep resources!
Corona has captured this Earth,
By your super power you throw,
Let Corona Virus leave this world,
Let all medicinal plants grow,
Reforming time and Earth,
You do wonder dear Master God,
Only you can save us at this time!
An appeal we do to you to vote us,
We know you rate us giving full point,
Getting ten we get delighting light,
You vote us and put us in power,
So that we can be victorious
And Corona will be defeated,
Corona has cut the throat,
Corona has thrown us out of
Five hundred planets,
Due to fear of death and the defeat,
Our friends are crying in agony,
You empower us bringing into top,
You save our civilization and lives!
© Kumarmani Mahakul,25 March 2020. All rights reserved.

With cap and gown
And scroll in your hand,
You’ve joined an elite band:
A full-blown Doc!
The world needs you
To serve the sick;
A noble duty you must do
And keep aflame the wick.
The world is large
And so its challenges;
Ahead you charge;
Time will solve all problems.
And never forget
Your Alma Mater-
The place that made you
A Doctor.
And think awhile
About your teachers too;
They did a job fine that
All couldn’t do.
Remember friends,
You’re a noble lot;
Keep your Ethics,
And reach the top slot.
“Wish you a bright career! ”
Copyright by Dr John Celes
11-11-2005

As you drive away
I wave goodbye,
And remember the times
We laughed and cried.
As you drive away
I slowly start to cry
And remember how much
You hurt me deep inside.
As you drive away
I’m filled with anger
Because you never said
You’re sorry for my pain.
As you drive away
I look my life
…And yours,
And I forgive you.
As you drive away
I wave goodbye
Then, stand and watch
And realize it graduation day
And nothing will ever be the same.

Graduation Day
sweat and mothballs
grass so green
graduation
where green banners wave
grass grows long
graduation night
the owl printed on a balloon
seems the wisest
*Please comment and vote on poems*

Graduation Day is the climax of a
dream.
A parental dream that began
when a child is born,
And their hope come true it
would seem,
A triumph held after periods of
forlorn,
A feeling of pride and euphoria
years away
For a daughter or son -
Graduation Day.
It is a peak of success for the
graduate,
Not only for the graduate but
parents too.
A joyful event after many years
they had to wait,
Realizing the glorious thrill of a
dream come true,
A genuine smile accompanied by
a deep sigh,
Often a handkerchief in hand as
the class goes by.
Graduation is a deserving, hard
earned goal
With mortarboard and gown as
foretold,
A gratifying service of the mind
and soul
In a simple and beautiful
sheepskin told
That the graduate fulfilled the
educational rule.
At last, for the mother and father,
a dream come true.
Graduation Day!

Walks down the halls one last time,
knowing it is the last time,
Empty rooms where we sat the last four years,
empty lockers where books were kept,
Walks down and across the stage into a new life,
no more bells-early mornings- or being late,
A new life awaits, won't wait forever,
live life the way it was designed,

It's a time top rejoice on all your achievements
it's a time to look back on what you have done
it's a time to move forward
it's a time to realize you'll miss it so much
it's a time where you'll smile and cry both at the same time
it's a time to say goodbye to those who changed your life
it's a time to those you don't want to leave
it's a time of graduation
the day you've been waiting for
the day you worked so hard for
it's here
you made it finally
standing there in your cap and gown
friends and family looking on
with tears in their eyes
tears of happiness and pride
calling out your name
as you get your diploma
the biggest smile on your face
the ceremony is over
now time to party
be with friends and family
and know in your heart and mind
you made it
this moment belongs to the graduates
all graduates
young and old
from first grade to college
this moment is yours
be happy
be blessed
be ready for the rest of your life

This evening at another Granddaughter's graduation, this one from
high school with honors, student government, being a well-rounded
young woman of sixteen.
Going on to college, a wonderful experience that she's sure to en-
joy exclusively, all graduates now seated below in the auditorium
at the Arizona State Fairgrounds where it's being held.
There were far too many family members and friends in attendance
here tonight, color guard starting off the commencement, national
anthem being played by a guitarist, one of the graduates.
Speeches given in several students native languages, welcoming
everyone tonight, a young girl singing solo along with the Camel-
back High School band.
A beautiful voice, outstanding spiritual song, a terrific singer,
who will be remembered long after graduation, now graduates are
standing one row at a time to go upon the stage to receive their
individual diplomas and awards.
Many students gathered in front of us, proud and happy to have now
graduated tonight, our Granddaughter being called upon the stage now,
as we are clapping and yelling for her.
So proud of her accomplishments, heart's swelling with pride and joy
to see her, our young Granddaughter now a beautiful young woman, step-
ping out of childhood with a smile and goals in her mind.
All of which we're sure she will achieve, looking forward to attending
her college graduation in four years, she wants to be a teacher and
educate young children, a task she will be more than qualified for in
life.

And some time later in the lingering
blaze of summer, in the first days
after September 11th you phoned –
if I don’t tell anyone my name I’ll
pass for an African American.
And suddenly, this seemed a sensible solution –
the best protection: to be a black man
born in America, more invisible than
Somalian, Muslim, asylum seeker –
Others stayed away that first Friday
but your uncle insisted that you pray.
How fortunes change so swiftly
I hear you say. And as you parallel
park across from the Tukwila
mosque, a young woman cries out –
her fears unfurling beside your battered car
go back where you came from!
You stand, both of you, dazzling there
in the mid-day light, her pavement
facing off along your parking strip.
You tell me she is only trying
to protect her lawn, her trees,
her untended heart – already
alarmed by its directive.
And when the neighborhood
policeman appears, asks
you, asks her, asks the others –
So what seems to be the problem
He actually expects an answer,
as if any of us could name it –
as if perhaps your prayers
chanted as this cop stands guard
watching over your windshield
during the entire service
might hold back the world
we did not want to know.

A girl who is seventeen,
A girl who is Rory Gilmore,
A girl that walks with confidence,
A girl who always leaves the door open to endless possibility.
As enemies in high school,
Hatred ran through the veins of Jordyn Parker for me,
Jordyn and I both wanted to be lawyers,
I was accepted into Yale University, while Jordyn was not.
Chilton High School was the beginning of a tragic ending,
Only two valedictorians in the school,
I was one, Jordyn was the other,
The other chose to make herself absent.
A palace like structure was the place of Jordyn's disappearance,
All the lights were off in the building except for the auditorium,
The last time Jordyn was seen was at around 5: 00 p.m.,
The schedule was to begin at 7: 00 p.m.
Shock engulfed me leaving me helpless,
My heart began to beat faster and faster,
A silhouette could be seen in a room,
As I began to walk towards the room it too moved.
Graduation consumed my mind,
Graduation had consumed my mind for the past twelve years,
Where was she,
How could she not afford to not represent herself?
Jordyn passed away at 6: 55 p.m.,
All she needed was some direction,
Jealousy was the outline behind the sheet of actions,
In a letter she stated, 'the world is looking out for you.'
Tragedy at Graduation.

Long ago in a far away land
Ruled a evil King with a strong hand
He was mean and he was cruel
Such a man should never rule.
He had a daughter and a loving wife
Two tall sons and a marvelous life
His lack of appreciation for what he had
Made the King’s family very sad.
Gold coins piled high with plenty for his needs
Could not satisfy the King’s vast greed
He taxed his Subjects and he stole their land
Issuing proclamations full of bold demands
The beautiful Princess– no longer a girl
Gave her hand in marriage to a handsome Earl
Rode away with her husband on a prancing steed
Leaving behind the King consumed with greed
The oldest son loved adventures, games, and sport
He soon grew weary of the boring court
Where nothing occupied his royal father’s day
But thinking of ways to make his Subjects pay.
One fine day the Prince could stand no more
Made plans to head for a distant shore
Strapped on armor and a sharp-edged sword
Sailed far away to fight a distant war.
The King took no notice of his children’s flight
He sat counting money all through the night
The youngest son stopped as he went to bed
Stood watching the King and sadly shook his head.
The Prince worried about his father – his mother, too.
He wished that he knew the best thing to do
Nothing good could come of the King’s evil gain
Seeing his parents drift apart gave the young man pain.
Finally the Queen, with a broken heart
Sighed and climbed aboard a rickety cart
She used this vehicle to steal away
One early morning at the break of day.
Riding along behind a long-eared mule
She cursed her husband for being a fool.
Through the Village Square; past a flowing fountain
The Queen drove her mule up a towering mountain.
A magical genie lived on the mountaintop
Reaching the wizard’s home, the queen did stop.
That she would be found, she had no fears,
Here the Queen could be safely hidden for years.
No one knew the Queen was alive and well -
No one but the youngest son who would not tell.
The Queen sent her son a note inside an ancient ring
and begged him not to tell his father, the King.
Sitting in his castle on his massive throne
One day the King realized that he was all alone.
There was dirt on the windows and on the floor
He hadn’t eaten all day – and his stomach was sore.
The King cursed loudly and then yelled for his wife
She had always cared for the desires of his life
“Why has she deserted me? ” the poor man moaned
“She could have left a note – or she could have phoned.”
Ah, but the Queen was happy and very content
She only regretted the lost years she had spent
Worshiping at the feet of the man she called “Honey” -
Catering to the man who loved nothing but money.

Spat out of the mouth of Satan
Comes forth a needy demon
With desires exploding
Out of proportion
On the souls of selfish Victims
His ambitions forgets good morals
Hunger fuel in rage
Passion burns insane
His thirst should be quench
Craving fed, yeaning comforted
Give him more, give him more!
His hunger is driving him insane
His thirst must always be quench!
Yearnings well comforted!
Give him more! give him more
Even if he takes his victims to hell
His hunger will never be fed!
.....August 3rd 2009
All rights Mister Eyan Desir.....

Greed Is Out
Greed is out,
Yes, yes, let’s shout,
Again and again:
Greed is out.
Let’s spout, let’s shout!
Realized pain
And unrealized gain
Are not taxable.
Political contributions
Are not deductible.
No stock options!
The Stock Market
Lost its jacket
And its pants.
Common sense
Must prevail.
No bail, no bail,
For the crooked billionaire;
It is just, it is fair
To lock him up
‘Cause he is at the very top
Of the super-kleptomaniac list.
He is a mad genius;
He killed telepathically,
And he loved fame and money.
What a disgrace!
What a dishonest face!
No bail, no bail,
For such a whale!
Stock him in jail,
Squish him in hell,
Greed is out,
Let’s spout, let’s shout!
Copyright© March 2009, Hebert Logerie, All Rights Reserved
Hébert Logerie is the author of two poetry books:
“Sparkles of Love and Etincelles de l’Amour”
Hébert Logerie is the author of “Mounts And Valleys of Love”
https: //www2.xlibris.com/bookstore/bookdisplay.aspx? bookid=58359
PLEASE ORDER AT ORDERS@XLIBRIS.COM OR CALL 1-866-957-5010!

I find it impossible to understand
How greed and power destroy nations
How its left carry on unabated
People power has to call a halt
The media owned by multinationals
Feed us with what we want to hear
Oil companies don't want competition
Going green is not to them an option
In Ireland a government was defeated
For trying to privatise their water
People there fighting the big boys
Setting an example all over Europe

Greed
Greedy
Loss, loss, loss
First psychologically
Then worldly, spiritually.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza |   09/04/2017

The love of self,
of our earthly wealth
a lie upon the earth
creating a distance from the Lord
veiled in flowery verse
We are not made
for the things that rust
that wither and turn to dust
a mighty fortress is our God
in Him alone should we trust
Nothing of our possessions
make nothing an idol, we pray
turning away from the world
to our brother instead
Follow the Christ,
away from the world
with his witness of God's true love
showing obedience, trust in the Lord
going to the cross,
as a humble servant
not the throne
a king in an earthly realm
Out things, this focus on our wealth
a prison, chains on our hearts
keeping us from walking with our God
on the dusty roads of this life
yoked to our brother, our savior
doing his work
for this we are called
leaving our lives, the things behind
going where we are led

People with petty greed ~ how much do they get
Not all people have big-sized greeds
We very ordinary
bunch of people with petty greed
Don't even have courage to feel big-sized greed
My petty greed has often been met
by petty donors
Twice or so I was saved
by the God on my shelf
After safe escape I gave a smirk
Indulged a bit in intellectual conceit  Ah
Escaped narrowly honour is saved
Yet my petty greed was not quenched
Even now I make rounds to petty donors
Ah they too are small-time people
They too live within limits
How can they give their all
Even if they give do I have the guts
to pull all up to the roots.
Can people with petty greed geta full amount
Very ordinary person I
pulled by petty greed
Ever go round and round
Come back home take bath daily
Light the lamp on my shelf
God keep saving me
Very ordinary person, me
haven't even got the courage
to feel big-sized greed.
___ ___________
amar chinchke lov
tr: rajlukshmee debee

Reed, greed!
Greed like a pride is the curse of mankind;
Purse, curse!
And to buttress our inalienable rights.
Stress, buttress!
But, i am dressed like a school boy waiting for my teacher;
However, realistic is my name.
Feed, heed!
And, you are dressed like a school girl on my love;
But, in truthfulness is the eloquence of your muse.
Note, wrote!
But, the pride of greediness is the curse of mankind.

Through windows' widely open frame
Two robins once to my house came
And surveyed everything they saw,
I watched them whilst with wide-eyed awe.
From one corner to the farther,
And from sitting room to the ‘ther,
Flying from ceiling fan to fan,
Wondering on greed of a man!
Why on earth they need such big nest?
She seemed to tell to her boy friend,
I don't think they expect new guest,
We as do our chicks this month end.
Wonder if we can our modest
Nest build inside their sprawling nest.
Stop building castles in thin air,
He said: tree's fine for us and fair.
______________________________________
Musings |30.03.2020|
Topic: greed, birds, nest

Not, exactly, green:
closer to bronze
preserved in kind brine,
something retrieved
from a Greco-Roman wreck,
patinated and oddly
muscular. We cannot
know what his fantastic
legs were like--
though evidence
suggests eight
complexly folded
scuttling works
of armament, crowned
by the foreclaws'
gesture of menace
and power. A gull's
gobbled the center,
leaving this chamber
--size of a demitasse--
open to reveal
a shocking, Giotto blue.
Though it smells
of seaweed and ruin,
this little traveling case
comes with such lavish lining!
Imagine breathing
surrounded by
the brilliant rinse
of summer's firmament.
What color is
the underside of skin?
Not so bad, to die,
if we could be opened
into this--
if the smallest chambers
of ourselves,
similarly,
revealed some sky.

What comes to my mind when I see a green wall?
A green wall reminds me of the grass so green
And the emerald most rarely seen
A green wall reminds me of the leaves so green
And a forest where I have never been
A green wall reminds me of trees with a lot of shade
And the fresh vegetables kept for trade.
What comes to my mind when I see a blue wall?
It reminds me of the sea so blue
I feel like jumping in it too
A blue wall reminds me of the blue sky
You can’t touch it cause it’s very high
A blue wall reminds me of the deep blue bear
It is very dangerous so beware
A blue wall reminds me of a blue whale
To reach it from the shore you have to sail.

By this part of the century few are left who believe
in the animals for they are not there in the carved parts
of them served on plates and the pleas from the slatted trucks
are sounds of shadows that possess no future
there is still game for the pleasure of killing
and there are pets for the children but the lives that followed
courses of their own other than ours and older
have been migrating before us some are already
far on the way and yet Peter with his gaunt cheeks
and point of white beard the face of an aged Lawrence
Peter who had lived on from another time and country
and who had seen so many things set out and vanish
still believed in heaven and said he had never once
doubted it since his childhood on the farm in the days
of the horses he had not doubted it in the worst
times of the Great War and afterward and he had come
to what he took to be a kind of earthly
model of it as he wandered south in his sixties
by that time speaking the language well enough
for them to make him out he took the smallest roads
into a world he thought was a thing of the past
with wildflowers he scarcely remembered and neighbors
working together scything the morning meadows
turning the hay before the noon meal bringing it in
by milking time husbandry and abundance
all the virtues he admired and their reward bounteous
in the eyes of a foreigner and there he remained
for the rest of his days seeing what he wanted to see
until the winter when he could no longer fork
the earth in his garden and then he gave away
his house land everything and committed himself
to a home to die in an old chateau where he lingered
for some time surrounded by those who had lost
the use of body or mind and as he lay there he told me
that the wall by his bed opened almost every day
and he saw what was really there and it was eternal life
as he recognized at once when he saw the gardens
he had made and the green fields where he had been
a child and his mother was standing there then the wall would close
and around him again were the last days of the world

You ask me why I dwell in the green mountain;
I smile and make no reply for my heart is free of care.
As the peach-blossom flows down stream and is gone into the unknown,
I have a world apart that is not among men.

My favorite colors are green and brown.
Green-leafed trees polka-dot our town.
Green’s the color of farm pond scum,
and green’s the color of green tea gum.
Copper turns green when it’s weathered.
Some Amazon parrots are green-feathered.
Green is the color Army privates wear,
and green’s what the young clerk dyed his hair.
The city of Oz was oh so green!
Green is the color of a string bean.
If you’re nauseous you’re “green around the gills”,
and I’d be “green with envy” if you had no bills.
Green beer is drunk on St. Patrick’s Day.
Green is the color of newly mowed hay.
A wilted green salad looks so sad,
but a green stick fracture is “not so bad”.
Greenbacks are U.S. paper money.
From green clover bees make clover honey.
A green traffic light tells me to go,
and a green banana ain’t ripe you know.
A green-winged teal is a small duck,
and a green four-leafed clover may bring you luck.
I’ve heard of “green thumb” but not “green nose”.
I wonder if green is the color of gangrened toes.

Grass is always green on the other side
But one has to know the other side, to see, weather how green the grass really is?
If you’re trapped then you can feel life in a shell
And not see how good life can be.
All those things that looks green and good to eyes
Just turn our own precious hearts go green.
Be content,
At least try to be…
Enjoy every thing…even waiting in a queue…
Life will soon be sunny! ! !

You look at me with sad green eyes,
I'm overcome with feeling-
Such deep emotion they disguise,
Yet send my senses reeling; They speak to me of loneliness
And feelings unexpressed,
Of hopes and dreams unrealized
And love gone uncaressed; They cry to me of urgency
To experience it all-
But here you are in limbo
With your back against the wall; I wish I had the answers
To the questions they impose-
I'm drowning in those sad green eyes
And the sorrow only grows; If I had one magic wish,
You know what it would be?
To see instead of sad green eyes
Green eyes that smile for me.

Grace unequalled in my earthly eyes,
dream when snuffles into ocean blue,
dust inflames, as  fire stashes in the hide
across the mystery of the jingle’s brim.
warmth cradles the glow of the green
voices when curves the shape of grin
heart revels by the words of whisper
night never refrained of gentle breath.
moments expense in gleams of light
scarlet rose shelters in room of repose
passion wades through reeks of lone void
the blue yet flecks into the plumes afloat....'
breeze flows trudging through the riffs
reeks may intone assailing the flow
yet the sultry dream serenades the cliff
as the wild stream brooks by the eternity.

On the cheerful village green,
Skirted round with houses small,
All the boys and girls are seen,
Playing there with hoop and ball.
Now they frolic hand in hand,
Making many a merry chain;
Then they form a warlike band,
Marching o'er the level plain.
Now ascends the worsted ball,
High it rises in the air,
Or against the cottage wall,
Up and down it bounces there.
Then the hoop, with even pace,
Runs before the merry throngs;
Joy is seen in every face,
Joy is heard in cheerful songs.
Rich array, and mansions proud,
Gilded toys, and costly fare,
Would not make the little crowd
Half so happy as they are.
Then, contented with my state,
Where true pleasure may be seen,
Let me envy not the great,
On a cheerful village green.

An orphan saw a flower with golden hair
The sun shined her and lighted her in fully fair
Eyes refused to blink
Heart started to bet fast
Body was shaking
Blood denied to circle
Greenish became the Favorite chosen season
This will stay inside of orphan because he has reason
Blocked also controlled the anger for long journey
Tasted the hand made in added different recipe
Replaced blindly with inappropriate chosen
Sadly accepted realized his life has frozen

Days I yearn to kiss your luscious lips
Delicious lips tasting like a reddish apple
as I bite upon your watery tongue
Dark hair conceals your beautiful face
your beauty resembles that of Aphrodite
Praying you'll love this fool
Times trapped in my dusky hell
You're there to show me the light
Days your sweet words inspires me
Compassionate words bringing hope to
to this foolish sinner
Darken days, the Moon
shines on your caressive skin
my stiff hands stuck upon your
bosom while you remain silent
in the lace bed

Her hair
covers my face
she
kisses my mouth
kisses my kisses.
She chuckles.
I stroke her hair.
She sways &
...moves.
Her hair
covers my chest.
She
titillates a nipple
...it tickles.
I run my fingers
through her hair.
She sashays &
...moves.
Her hair
covers my navel
& there...&
there...abouts!
I…almost beside myself
neither...here...nor... there...
Lost in the anywhere
of an everywhere.
I clutch
her hair.
She shimmies &
...moves.
Her hair
covers my crotch.
She
licks it
into shape.
She
goes to say
something
it’s on
the tip of
her tongue.
But, she says nothing
only: “Mmmmm...! ”
& smiles
...smiles.
I close
my eyes.
My hands
entangled in
her hair.
*******
TREAD SOFTLY
We rest on the bed
your head rests against my head
sharing the same dream.

Wide cheeks? Let the hair hide the ears.
Broad forehead? Let the hair spills in front.
Dwarf neck? Let the hair in knot be up.
Lanky figure? Let the hair falls on shoulders.
Hair being dense is an asset to woman
27.03.2006

I love my hair
I always toss it around in the air
As if without a care!
I love my hair
Once I caught the super hair bug
Caught it whilst I slept on an old rug
The super lice were playing scratch, scratch, and scratch
While my fingernails were playing catch, catch and catch
Finally my hair was shaven as there was no cure, no other drug
I wore my head on my shoulder for a while with a distasteful shrug
Hiding underneath a cap with obvious bald patches that seemed to match
I love my hair
Long, golden plaited and brown
Enough to move heads around in town
People just want to come near
And stare! Stare at me! Who is that alien from elsewhere?
My hair is beautifully plaited in strands
This kind of hair fashion is high in demand
So many different styles to experiment with and expand
Today a woman needs to look good, do you understand?
I talk to my hair with oils
I say today I need you to curl
And when I style you,
Stay in place, do not spoil!
I wash my hair twice a day
Maybe when I am old, it would go grey
But for now the beauty is here to stay
I hope so, I definitely pray!
Beware all, take care
I love my hair, I love my hair
Don’t touch! But you can stare
You can stare at how I wear
My beautiful hair!
Try and out-do me if you dare!
I love my hair
I like to show it off
Around me do not sneeze or cough
Or with you I can be horribly tough
Around me do not sneeze or cough
If you don’t want to know the meaning of rough
I mean it, this isn’t a bluff!
I love my hair!
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi

MO CAILIN ALAINN RUA
(My Beautiful Red Haired Girl)
Your hair
taken by the wind
blown
into flame
a fiery red
Medussa
standing on
the edge
of this
mountain
a world
turned to stone
as if your gaze
froze this landscape
into place.
I too
still as stone
your hair
flaring up into the air
fiery snakes
like thoughts
bursting out of your mind
fighting the sunset
that only
a small box camera
captures
& contains
this photo
cutting off your head
from the rest of you
mythical
untouchable
mo cailin alainn rua
mo cailin alainn rua.
***
RED RIVER
Your hair
trickles down your back
in curls...curls
curl after curl
rivers of ringlets
cascading down your spine.
I want to drown
in the waters of your hair.
You wear a waterfall
over each shoulder
The fiery flames
of your tresses
crashing over thigh & hip & buttock!
My hands
like fishes
swimming all over
your body
splashed with the beauty
of your hair
touching & touching
the sheer
nakedness
of
you.
***** **
WEARING HER HAIR
You stand
before me
dressed only
in the dress
that your hair
weaves about you
naked
yet
not
you wear
your hair
as a magical
garment
from a half remembered half forgotten fairytale.
You undress
throwing your hair over each shoulder
I come to you as if a spell
commanded me to & you
wrap me
in your hair.
Both  our
nakedness
wearing your hair
sheltered here
lost amongst
kisses.
***
A fellow poet(well, it wasn't a fella)       divulged that she too was red of the hair(this had been unknown to me)       and so this homage to redheads came into being just on this wisp of information...the memories and images flood back into being.

Its just one more story left untold,
But, This ones different,
Its about a girl, Whos hair was gold,
She had a smile like no other,
Everyone thought she was happy,
But little did they know,
Her smile was fake,
She just wanted to leave, to go,
Be free from the pain shes in,
Her brother, 'He', 'Him',
Emotionly bruised her soul,
She wont let anyone touch her,
Fearing that she will lose control,
Her Father, 'Just another'
So mixed up in alchol and drugs,
He cant even tell how hurt she is,
Her eyes flood with red blood tears,
Her Mother, 'There, But not'
She knows, but doesnt help,
Trying to support a family on her own,
Too much stress, Not enough fears,
And the girl with golden hair,
And a smile like no other?
Well, She struggling to keep it all together,
Crying herself to sleep everynight,
Having to deal with her Brother, Father and Mother,
So do you think the girl with the Golden hair,
And  a smile like no other is really happy?
Well shes not, because her life is rather crappy.

Black beamy hairs, which so seem to arise
From the extraction of those eyes,
That into you she destin-like doth spin
The beams she spares, what time her soul retires,
And by those hallowed fires,
Keeps house all night within.
Since from within her awful front you shine,
As threads of life which she doth twine,
And thence ascending with your fatal rays,
Do crown those temples, where Love's wonders wrought
We afterwards see brought
To vulgar light and praise.
Lighten through all your regions, till we find
The causes why we are grown blind,
That when we should your glories comprehend
Our sight recoils, and turneth back again,
And doth, as 'twere in vain,
Itself to you extend.
Is it because past black there is not found
A fixed or horizontal bound?
And so, as it doth terminate the white,
It may be said all colors to infold,
And in that kind to hold
Somewhat of infinite?
Or is it that the center of our sight
Being veiled in its proper night
Discerns your blackness by some other sense
Than that by which it doth pied colors see,
Which only therefore be
Known by their difference?
Tell us, when on her front in curls you lie
So diapred from that black eye.
That your reflected forms may make us know
That shining light in darkness all would find,
Were they not upward blind
With the sunbeams below.

Your God-gifted face,
Golden hair,
Glistening face,
Lustrous eyes,
Rosy cheeks,
Pink lips,
Admire I, appreciate I
Your fair and fine face,
Good looking,
Your voice so sweet and golden,
I admire you, admire and appreciate you,
A great beauty are you
So lovely to look at
With the golden locks hanging,
Tell me, who, who are you,
Lassie?
Who, who are you, blonde,
Belle so sweet,
Please pass by not,
Let me take a photo,
A girl never seen before,
Forcing me to compare with a balsam,
Brownish grey and glistening.

Their judgment untrue
I cannot see
why it means so much
to torcher me
Why they cannot simply
let me go
why their hated words
seem rehearsed to flow
Maybe they've always held this deep down
maybe I was always an enemy
behind their loving frown
It doesn’t mean as much
to tell them I’m not free
nor that I didn't commit a crime
that I am not guilty
Or at least that’s what I tell myself
and maybe I am wrong
maybe though I did no action
my heart sang a guilty song
So if it makes them happy
I shall tell them how
that I did desire
any better now?
But I held my tongue
and put hands to the sky
this I will tell you
is no lie
Can you blame me for wanting?
I'm a human too
and when you really think about it
that’s what humans do
So give me your sober looks
if it helps you ease
I will stay a nomad as I was
so hate me if you please

I am here with the music,
Never more to roam.
I am up beyond white clouds
Because Heaven is my home.
All my life I have waited
To be where you are,
I am here with the music
And my faithful guitar.
The gates they were golden
The roses were red
When I entered herein
Like a sheep I was led.
But I'll live here forever
With the ones I adore,
I am here with the music
Through Heaven's open door.
August 2008

Happiness is elusive like the wind
Coming and going like migrating birds
And sound of echoing peals of church bells.
I would keep love safe and strong
Held fast within my heart
Never lost to furies of a purple storm.
Once, I was happy and royal with my lover
Not knowing it was supreme
And through folly have lost all to loneliness.

Who does not like
Red of dawn, bed of sky
Spring of sun, strings of rain
Twinkling night, lulling sleep..?
Who does not like
Pile of flowers, smile of hills
Vale of woods, scales of serene
Sail, rail, so so trial..?
Who does not like
Babes and pets, cuisine and convene
Passion for fashion, fantasy-fascination
Style, mode, flair..?
Who does not like
Wealth and health, dwelling and long living
Kith and kin, friends and folks
Family, phratry, pedigree..?
Who does not like
Felicity, beatitude, spirit and service
Loving infirm, disabled, abandoned and complacency

It's not so much the world outside
that make us sigh or smile.
It's more the thoughts within our head
that make life seem worthwhile.
Thoughts of special people
that we have met along the way
and memories of the happy times we've shared
from day to day.
I often wonder on a day like this
If you've ever guessed.
How many times the thought of you
has brought me happiness.

Ever again to breathe pure happiness,
So happy that we gave away our toy?
We smiled at nothings, needing no caress?
Have we not laughed too often since with Joy?
Have we not stolen too strange and sorrowful wrongs
For her hands' pardoning? The sun may cleanse,
And time, and starlight. Life will sing great songs,
And gods will show us pleasures more than men's.
Yet heaven looks smaller than the old doll's-home,
No nestling place is left in bluebell bloom,
And the wide arms of trees have lost their scope.
The former happiness is unreturning:
Boys' griefs are not so grievous as our yearning,
Boys have no sadness sadder than our hope.

Happiness
Can only be found
If you search for it
Like a vicious blood hound
Happiness
Is just like love
Just to get it
You will push and shove
Happiness
Is just a door
You open it up
And you just want more
Happiness
Grows like trees
It gets really big
But dies in a breeze
Happiness
Is what I could never find
So I went to the dark
To sit and hide

Buying a car today would be so nice!
Having a car thats old is quite alright;
Getting a car tomorrow would be wise!
Changing a car each day would not be right.
Having something thats old is good enough;
Having something today seems still better;
Having something tomorrow is quite tough;
Yet, satisfaction's prime that must matter.
Each thing in time has its advantages;
Postponement's not something you always do;
One shouldn't decide slowly or take ages;
All things have demerits and beauty too!
Yet, values old have stood the test of time!
And modern things don't make life more sublime!

Happiness is knowing,
that you are truly loved,
But that someone special.
Knowing that you are secure,
With the person you are,
Is also happiness.
Happiness is knowing,
that you have learned,
to believe, trust and most of all,
Love yourself, for the person that you are.
Having accomplished all that is needed,
to be a complete person on the inside,
Only then, can we be truly happy.
Being happy with ourselves,
We are ready to accept the happiness,
that awaits us in our lifetime,
And that is the greatest happiness of all.

353
A happy lip—breaks sudden—
It doesn't state you how
It contemplated—smiling—
Just consummated—now—
But this one, wears its merriment
So patient—like a pain—
Fresh gilded—to elude the eyes
Unqualified, to scan—

I know you will reflect
upon your life today.
The happiness can wait
so can the candles
on the cake. They flicker
as if to tell you fibs
of optical illusion
and icing, creamy pink
and sugarsweet.
So, have a piece,
a smaller one should go
onto his China plate
across from you,
where loving eyes observe
aglow, like a contented bull
la vache qui rit, in human form
Eat up, dear Allie, he will do
all dishes of next year for you.

Happy Birthday from us to you
May this one be the best one yet.
Love and peace to you,
A nice cash flow too.
Kisses, hugs on top of that.  Happy Birthday to you,
And may God bless you,
With good health,
A family giving you their best
And another birthday on top of that.

And soon
we'll meet again,
old man.
Me, bearing flowers,
chaperoned by
one sweet niece,
'to show the ropes'
to me, the stranger.
And water things.
You, in the ground
since that cold day
in March,
with snow
still in the hills.
Your hills
where you meandered,
chased after that
psychopathic dog,
while reminiscing
over notable
advantages,
most imagined,
of long-gone days.
And of this,
the new world,
made entirely
for others.
Yet, you took pride
in always doing
your best
in any circumstance.
'Some day,
you said,
I'll be six feet under',
yeah,
and watching,
also judging,
maybe praising
surely condemning,
only the role
of executioner
to be denied.
That day did come.
You were prepared
of course.
The moment that
you closed
the final book,
and the last journal
where you had searched
with urgency
and all your brilliance,
for one more cure.
The one that would,
though hard to find,
be carrying your name.
When you were beaten
you would nod,
as if to say
'the subject's closed',
that's what you did.
As to the rest of us,
those  left,
we were perplexed
and short of words,
of clever thoughts.
And were expected
(and observed)
to show appropriate
behaviour,
like grief
and talent
of an organising spirit.
Which, being in a
niche of status
in a society,
stitched and
held together
by musty remnants
of our everlasting
bourgeoisie.
We did.
This time, old man
I want to warn you
in advance
with unaccustomed
and antipodean-like
courtesy,
there will be little
if any
conversation.
What,  with the kid,
she'd be so
ill-prepared
and might get
traumatised.
In any case,
we said our piece
last visit,
surely you remember,
it's when I asked
if you were comfy
in that hole,
hopefully not cold.
Not much to add this time,
though here is one,
a thought
to cheer you up,
I know it will,
you've had one
Father's Day already,
and I, respectful son,
who lives in
a Down Under
that's still above
the ground
(what a pun, sorry) ,
brings you another one,
a different date
from different worlds.
Thus you get two
just for the price of one.
So, I must close now.
My plane is leaving,
soon, too soon perhaps,
just wanted you to know
that I'll be there
to say Hello and
Happy Father's Day.
'Til then,
from man to man,
I send respect
to you, while going
back in time
to very early
memories.

Thousands of miles away
Once again, it's fookin' Mother's Day!
You and I don't talk,
You're mad at me while I refuse to bawk!
I'd love to be able to call you,
To tell you, I'll always love you,
That I'm proud to be your daughter...
I'd love to have you in my life,
Let you know, I'll soon be someone's wife,
To show you what kind of woman I've become,
I have you meet the man I find most handsome.
Being your daughter, I must say it truly sadens my heart,
Our lives being so far apart.
If I was to call, I'd wind up crying
Screaming and throwing the phone up against the wall,
Guess it's a good thing there's no laws,
Or else i'd be charged for phone~slaughter!
Guilty on the first degree....
Like mother like daughter!
Hope that one day you'll see that,
Regardless of our differences
I really do love and miss you.
I still hold a special place for you in my heart,
Even though our DNA's the only thing we have in common,
Maybe next Mother's Day we wont be so far apart.
Happy Mother's Day Mom! Love you!

I hope your happy with your life
I hope your happy with your wife
I hope you see what you have done
I hope you see that this is all wrong
I hope you realise that your not perfect
I hope you see that money's not worth it
I hope you realise that family comes first
I hope you see that my smile was rehearsed
I hope you see that your tearing me apart
I hope you someday grow a heart
I hope someday I will want to see you
I hope someday I wont have to see you
I hope you suffer, but I dont want that
I hope you die, but I dont mean that
I hope someday your 'love' will be real
I hope someday you will 'feel'
I hope you realise that money cant heal
I hope someday you'll feel, what I feel
I hope that before you die
I hope to tell you, I wont cry
I hoped you would be a good dad
I hoped you wouldnt make me mad
But all my hopes from before are gone
just like the love you had for their mom
I hope that I see you one last time
I hope I get to tell you this:
'I wish I never knew you
because of you....I wish I didnt exist....'

Blessed be Thou for all the joy
My soul has felt today!
O let its memory stay with me
And never pass away!
I was alone, for those I loved
Were far away from me,
The sun shone on the withered grass,
The wind blew fresh and free.
Was it the smile of early spring
That made my bosom glow?
'Twas sweet, but neither sun nor wind
Could raise my spirit so.
Was it some feeling of delight,
All vague and undefined?
No, 'twas a rapture deep and strong,
Expanding in the mind!
Was it a sanguine view of life
And all its transient bliss­-
A hope of bright prosperity?
O no, it was not this!
It was a glimpse of truth divine
Unto my spirit given
Illumined by a ray of light
That shone direct from heaven!
I felt there was a God on high
By whom all things were made.
I saw His wisdom and his power
In all his works displayed.
But most throughout the moral world
I saw his glory shine;
I saw His wisdom infinite,
His mercy all divine.
Deep secrets of his providence
In darkness long concealed
Were brought to my delighted eyes
And graciously revealed.
But while I wondered and adored
His wisdom so divine,
I did not tremble at his power,
I felt that God was mine.
I knew that my Redeemer lived,
I did not fear to die;
Full sure that I should rise again
To immortality.
I longed to view that bliss divine
Which eye hath never seen,
To see the glories of his face
Without the veil between.

Happiness. Can’t say I’ve ever had it.
Once I met a gleaming happy person,
He was beaming as he asked me to sit,
Said he would tell me how to have some fun.
Said he never worried at all for others,
Said he never cared for the world at all,
Said no man in the world was his brother
Said he never cared for the ones who fall.
Said you can’t be happy with that worry,
Said to be happy, to do as he said.
Said life is short and gone in a hurry,
Said no one remembers you when you’re dead.
So I told him then I’d rather be sad,
He wasn’t happy, instead he was Mad.

MARTIAL, the things that do attain
The happy life be these, I find:--
The richesse left, not got with pain;
The fruitful ground, the quiet mind;
The equal friend; no grudge, no strife;
No charge of rule, nor governance;
Without disease, the healthful life;
The household of continuance;
The mean diet, no delicate fare;
True wisdom join'd with simpleness;
The night discharged of all care,
Where wine the wit may not oppress.
The faithful wife, without debate;
Such sleeps as may beguile the night:
Contented with thine own estate
Ne wish for death, ne fear his might.

a girl named hate
stood at heavens gate
just wishing to be let in
she breathed out sin
and they shuned her
her pain a blur
she walked away
to try again another day
a girl named hate
stood at hells gate
she breathed out sin
and they let her in
they did not judge her
they loved her for sure
and there she will stay
day after day
that girl named hate
broke away from fate
she stayed were she fit in
she stayed with her sin
they did not hate her
they befriended her
things usualy turn out that way
when you tell some one to go away

Don't you just hate it when you lose control?
You try so hard to keep your mouth shut
Then some idiot pushes you over the edge -
And your mouth runs away with you?
Don't you just hate it when you do your best
To be open and nonjudgemental
Then something snaps and the bitch comes out
And you end up looking like a fool?
I guess it's just human nature at fault
Am I really that shallow and crass?
But I tell you some days it's all I can do
Not to kick some dumb jerk in the ass!
Oh..................that felt good! ! ! !

Has nothing
Anticipates loss
Terrible attitude
Eager to destruct

Hate yourself, cut
Hate yourself, starve
Hate yourself, bleed
Hate yourself, cry
Hate yourself, alone
Hate yourself, scream
Hate yourself, die

I hate that you fooled me
With your infectios smile
I hate that you told me you loved me
When you were lying all the while
I hate that you were so jealous
When he was just a friend
I hate that you turned this
Into something we cannot mend
I hate that we screwed this up
Past the point of no return
I hate that you never believed me
Trust is something you should learn
I hate that you ignore me now
As if we never were
I hate that you betrayed me
For my pain there is no cure
I hate that you broke my heart
You don't know what I've been through
But most of all
I hate myself for letting you

no one usually likes the word goodbye.
its a painful word.
that hurts so many poeple
in so many ways.
When your love says goodbye
is that i'll see you later.
or does it mean its 'over'.
goodbye hurt me once
it was the end of something good,
i wish there wasnt a goodbye
why wouldnt it have been 'hi'?

You make me weak.
You make me feel dirty and sick.
You make me crazy,
You make me cry quick.
I hate you with a passion,
I cannot explain.
You make my heart throb with evil,
Because you are so vain.
I hate you.
I came to that conclusion today.
I hate you.
That's all I can say.

I love you, I hate you
But your always on my mind
I hate the way you  smile
As beautiful as it may be
I hate the way you walk
And I hate the way you talk
I hate the way you smell
And I hate the way you feel
I hate the way you hair shines
And waves in the breeze
But most of all I hate the way
You make me feel
How your always on my mine
The way I see you but your never there
I hate it when I look at another girl
And all I see is you
I especially hate how much I love you
And everything you do
I hate how I can never have you
Or how my heart is not breaking over you
But shattering inside
With each piece of my heart
Contains a tiny fragment of memories I’ve confined
Memories of you I’ve held deep in side
Never letting go
I hate the way I feel when I miss you
And I want to break down and cry
I hate the pain that’s burning inside
w/t thoughts of how much I love you
that I could never hide
I hate, it and I hate you
But know matter how much I say it
I’ll still always love you deep down in side

The day I hate rice
Is several rare day in a year
When I don't eat rice
I don't want to eat rice
I don't want to see it
Because I hate its taste
And I hate to think about it
If I have the day I hate rice
Then you'll know that I don't feel well
I'm bored of this procession
I want to run from this life
Because I begin to hate myself
...just a little while
And everything will be back to normal again
That's the meaning of
The day I hate rice

Had I the heavens' embroidered cloths,
Enwrought with golden and silver light,
The blue and the dim and the dark cloths
Of night and light and the half-light,
I would spread the cloths under your feet:
But I, being poor, have only my dreams;
I have spread my dreams under your feet;
Tread softly because you tread on my dreams.

Dear Mommy up in heaven,
you’re always in my mind.
I wish that you could tell me
why you left so much behind.
You left your bunny slippers,
fuzzy pink with big long ears,
and when Daddy holds your picture
he’s sad and cries real tears.
Your clothes are in the bedroom,
you left your perfume, too,
and when I need you close to me
I go there - it smells like you.
You must hum a lot in heaven.
Daddy says he thinks you might.
Sometimes I think I hear you
when I shut my eyes real tight.
I miss your hugs and kisses,
you took most of them with you,
but I’m glad you made me save some
in my jammy pockets, too.
Me and Daddy miss and love you
and we don’t mean to make a fuss.
I guess you loved us both so much
that you left your stuff for us.

[To be sung to the tune of The Blood of the Lamb with indicated instrument]
I
[Bass drum beaten loudly.]
Booth led boldly with his big bass drum --
(Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?)
The Saints smiled gravely and they said: "He's come."
(Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?)
Walking lepers followed, rank on rank,
Lurching bravoes from the ditches dank,
Drabs from the alleyways and drug fiends pale --
Minds still passion-ridden, soul-powers frail: --
Vermin-eaten saints with mouldy breath,
Unwashed legions with the ways of Death --
(Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?)
[Banjos.]
Every slum had sent its half-a-score
The round world over. (Booth had groaned for more.)
Every banner that the wide world flies
Bloomed with glory and transcendent dyes.
Big-voiced lasses made their banjos bang,
Tranced, fanatical they shrieked and sang: --
"Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?"
Hallelujah! It was queer to see
Bull-necked convicts with that land make free.
Loons with trumpets blowed a blare, blare, blare
On, on upward thro' the golden air!
(Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?)
II
[Bass drum slower and softer.]
Booth died blind and still by Faith he trod,
Eyes still dazzled by the ways of God.
Booth led boldly, and he looked the chief
Eagle countenance in sharp relief,
Beard a-flying, air of high command
Unabated in that holy land.
[Sweet flute music.]
Jesus came from out the court-house door,
Stretched his hands above the passing poor.
Booth saw not, but led his queer ones there
Round and round the mighty court-house square.
Then in an instant all that blear review
Marched on spotless, clad in raiment new.
The lame were straightened, withered limbs uncurled
And blind eyes opened on a new, sweet world.
[Bass drum louder.]
Drabs and vixens in a flash made whole!
Gone was the weasel-head, the snout, the jowl!
Sages and sibyls now, and athletes clean,
Rulers of empires, and of forests green!
[Grand chorus of all instruments. Tambourines to the foreground.]
The hosts were sandalled, and their wings were fire!
(Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?)
But their noise played havoc with the angel-choir.
(Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?)
O shout Salvation! It was good to see
Kings and Princes by the Lamb set free.
The banjos rattled and the tambourines
Jing-jing-jingled in the hands of Queens.
[Reverently sung, no instruments.]
And when Booth halted by the curb for prayer
He saw his Master thro' the flag-filled air.
Christ came gently with a robe and crown
For Booth the soldier, while the throng knelt down.
He saw King Jesus. They were face to face,
And he knelt a-weeping in that holy place.
Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?

370
Heaven is so far of the Mind
That were the Mind dissolved—
The Site—of it—by Architect
Could not again be proved—
'Tis vast—as our Capacity—
As fair—as our idea—
To Him of adequate desire
No further 'tis, than Here—

I HAVE drunk ale from the Country of the Young
And weep because I know all things now:
I have been a hazel-tree, and they hung
The Pilot Star and the Crooked Plough
Among my leaves in times out of mind:
I became a rush that horses tread:
I became a man, a hater of the wind,
Knowing one, out of all things, alone, that his head
May not lie on the breast nor his lips on thc hair
Of the woman that he loves, until he dies.
O beast of the wilderness, bird of the air,
Must I endure your amorous cries?

I would to heaven that I were so much clay,
As I am blood, bone, marrow, passion, feeling -
Because at least the past were passed away -
And for the future - (but I write this reeling,
Having got drunk exceedingly today,
So that I seem to stand upon the ceiling)
I say - the future is a serious matter -
And so - for God's sake - hock and soda water!

Why are there no tears in Heaven?
Will I forget all my fears in Heaven?
You walked out of your way
Wish you could have stayed…In Heaven
Your emotions are being past around
Got us to being down…Oh Heaven
On this narrow one-way road
Your decisions dusty and old…Not in Heaven

The little girl
stood in
the meadow.
She had been
asked by God
to raise her eyes
and look to him,
And so she did.
Soon gold and silver
came raining
down from Heaven,
it was a veritable
deluge.
While she rejoiced
and raised her skirt
to catch the coins
the dirt claws
of Lucifer
reached through
the moss and
curled up leaves.
So silently
and filled with
invisibility.
And with the stench
of sulfur
surrounding her
and all the riches
she never knew
when slowly,
imperceptibly,
with certainty,
her nickers,
sweetly embroidered
just a week ago
by Nana,
were taken
by filthy hands
while angels
watched
with kindness.

489
We pray—to Heaven—
We prate—of Heaven—
Relate—when Neighbors die—
At what o'clock to heaven—they fled—
Who saw them—Wherefore fly?
Is Heaven a Place—a Sky—a Tree?
Location's narrow way is for Ourselves—
Unto the Dead
There's no Geography—
But State—Endowal—Focus—
Where&m dash;Omnipresence—fly?

Don't let me go.
Give me some strength.
Make me a hero,
because i am strong.
I am strong!
You give me strength.
Make me your hero.
I want to believe,
there is something in me.
Give me the strength,
so i can finally see.
There is something,
something strong in me.
Don't let me go.
Be my hero.
I will grow,
with strength enough,
to save you.
Make me a hero,
because i believe-
the hero in you,
will make a hero of me.
You are what i need.
The strength in myself.
I will save you; don't let go.

Fighting for this great land
In a far off place
To fight for the freedom of all
In a war in a country not your own
So many wars
So many lost
Yet we love you all
Even the ones that are gone
Our brave heroes fought
to make us our own country
They fought each other
when slavery was an issue
They even fought
for Texas and The Alamo
World War I
Had to go put things
to rest in Germany
World War II
The need to fight back
May all the souls in Pearl Harbor
Rest In Eternal Peace
Fixed our problems with Japan
and righted things in Germany
Vietnam our saddest war
Why did so many have to die
Vietcong hiding everywhere
making it hard to survive
Now there is a wall
for our fallen brethren there
Fallen and survivors
Several disrespected at first
Now honor given to all
from our saddest war
Korea oh Korea
We tried to keep you united
We did our best
Now we can see you slowly mingle again
Persian Gulf
The first time to fight Iraq
We managed to save what we could
We put the fires out in Kuwait
Now we are in Operation Freedom
and the hunt for Osama binladen and his men
We have lost so many
Yet we keep helping them
The heroes of today
taking after the heroes of yesterday
So this is my tribute
To honor all the heroes
that are and have been in uniform
Thank you
To the true heroes
The United States Military
(Dedicated to the US Airforce, Navy, Marines, Army Vets and current soldiers.  We all love and appreciate you.)

She sits upon her sofa, just sits & stares they say,
She, s waiting for the day to come
When he walks by her way.
But she will sit forever waiting
Cause he wont be home tonight,
She must have known that fateful day
When he was shot on sight.
you see he was an officer
An officer of the law,
He didnt have a chance at all
Not even time to draw.
The weapon that should have protected him
Stayed clipped upon his belt,
No way of ever knowing that day
how the cards of fate would be dealt.
His partner went down with him
another casualty to the list,
Thier uniforms could not protect them
No badge or iron fist.
But she remembers his smiling face
As he left on that fateful morn,
Goodbye my love as he kissed her cheek
Then walked proudly out the door,
No way of ever knowing
She would hear those words no more.
The days are slow & nights are long
As she pines for the man she loves,
He, s foating on a cloud in the sky
Looking down on her from above...

Hail great hero!
Hero brave!
We praise you hero!
I your slave
Now duly fall
On giving knee
In hero worship
Unto thee!
Now did you hero save our globe
When draped in classic hero’s robe?
And did it flow as reddened blood
As battles raged in fields of mud?
Oh hero tell me of your fame:
Were writhing serpents fair your game?
Did you pierce the dragon’s heart
Intrepid hero; play the part
When Tyrant slain in hero’s fight
On quaking ground thro’ battle’s might?
And did you hero conquer evil -
Waste the minions of the devil?
Oh valiant hero, does your armour
Gleam from ventures steeped in valour?
Your sword oh hero, sparks a glint
From charging steel to give the hint
Of what great chapters Hero's Tome
Might tell to us when heroes roam
Through lands of yore when goblins vile
Sought a chance to kill for bile.
Oh hail thy hero,
Hero tall!
Bless you hero,
As I fall
In blushing shame,
I speak to me…
This mirror aids to fantasise
That I be hero worldly wise,
But meek and mild is all I am:
Hero naught; unbridled scam.
Copyright © Mark R Slaughter 2009
< br>
< br>
Hero hero hero hero
Hero hero hero hero
Hero hero hero hero

Let Me Be Your HERO
By: Jo E
My daughter, let me be your Hero.
Let me take you hand and lead you into a dance.
Let me look at you and take you in my arms.
Dance with me in the Rain.
But most of all my daughter 'Let me be you Hero'
Let me show you how much you are loved.
Let me show you how much I LOVE YOU.
Let me just protect you.
But most of all, will you Let me be YOUR  HERO
Let me be YOUR HERO
Take my hand, and i will lead you.
I will lead you to the most beautiful, wonderful, magic place where its just you and me!
Let me be Your HERO
I will take you hand in mine and never let go
Let me be YOUR HERO
I will love you till eternity
Let me be YOU HERO
Let me hold you in my arms where u just want to cry
Let me be YOUR HERO
I wil protect you, when there is no one to protect you. Ill BE YOUR HERO!
WIll you just let me be you HERO?
My Daughter ILL be YOUR HERO if only you will LET ME BE YOUR HERO!
©2009

My hero is the best,
He is better than all the rest,
My hero doesn’t like to admit,
That he is my hero when he dose his little bit
My hero has love and respect,
Even he is my prime subject,
My hero is always on my mind,
Even though he is smart and kind,
My hero has a special name,
But I can’t tell you it cause it would put him in shame
My hero loves to pull a trick,
He is not smart no is he very thick?
My hero makes me smile even though I feel crying,
He says 'I will always love you even though I am dyeing'
25/2/06

Onward to her destination,
O'er the stream that Hannah sped,
When a cry of consternation
Smote and chilled our hearts with dread.
Wildly leaping, madly sweeping,
All relentless in their sway,
Like a band of cruel demons
Flames were closing 'round our way
Oh! the horror of those moments;
Flames above and waves below-
Oh! the agony of ages
Crowded in one hour of woe.
Fainter grew our hearts with anguish
In that hour with peril rife,
When we saw the pilot flying,
Terror-stricken, for his life.
Then a man up rose before us-
We had once despised his race-
But we saw a lofty purpose
Lighting up his darkened face.
While the flames were madly roaring,
With a courage grand and high,
Forth he rushed unto our rescue,
Strong to suffer, brave to die.
Helplessly the boat was drifting,
Death was staring in each face,
When he grasped the fallen rudder,
Took the pilot's vacant place.
Could he save us? Would he save us?
All his hope of life give o'er?
Could he hold that fated vessel
'Till she reached the nearer shore?
All our hopes and fears were centered
'Round his strong, unfaltering hand;
If he failed us we must perish,
Perish just in sight of land.
Breathlessly we watched and waited
While the flames were raging fast;
When our anguish changed to rapture-
We were saved, yes, saved at last.
Never strains of sweetest music
Brought to us more welcome sound.

Many people the praises of warriors do sing
And they talk of war as if war is a good thing
There are tears in their eyes when the last post is played
And proudly they march in every war parade
Every day in war zones more people do die
And the war supposed to end all wars was based on a lie
And more wars are waged now than ever before
The lessons of history we tend to ignore
The coward from the battle turned and ran away
But the hero is dead and the coward lives today
They talk of the heroes in battles lost and won
But in war there's no winner when all is said and done
From the heat of the battle the coward ran away
But he is a very proud grand-dad today.

Where he lives none does help you when you are down
The one out of work in the poor side of town
A young man in his early twenties with life struggling to cope
Though of finding employment he is not without hope.
Disadvantaged by the suburb he lives in and his postal address
Such things potential employers do fail to impress
But of searching for a job start he never does cease to try
Of courage in adversity none of him can deny.
One cannot say of him he does not do his best
And he showed his true courage when put to the test
He saved a baby girl's life in a house fire
In the unlikely hero so much to admire.
To save a grateful parents child life he put his own life on the line
Yet an offer of an award for bravery he did decline
Of saving a young life he did not make a big thing
And his praises he does not wish others to sing.
In the factory he worked in his job he enjoyed
'Til when the company went into receivership he became unemployed
But to the victim mentality he is not inclined
And he will keep searching 'til a job he will find.

LET others prate of Greece and Rome,
And towns where they may never be,
The muse should wander nearer home.
My country is enough for me;
Her wooded hills that watch the sea,
Her inland miles of springing corn,
At Macedon or Barrakee—
I love the land where I was born.
On Juliet smile the autumn stars
And windswept plains by Winchelsea,
In summer on their sandy bars
Her rivers loiter languidly.
Where singing waters fall and flee
The gullied ranges dip to Lorne
With musk and gum and myrtle tree—
I love the land where I was born.
The wild things in her tangles move
As blithe as fauns in Sicily,
Where Melbourne rises roof by roof
The tall ships serve her at the quay,
And hers the yoke of liberty
On stalwart shoulders lightly worn,
Where thought and speech and prayer are free—
I love the land where I was born.
Princes and lords of high degree,
Smile, and we fling you scorn for scorn,
In hope and faith and memory
I love the land where I was born.

Bound for your distant home
you were leaving alien lands.
In an hour as sad as I’ve known
I wept over your hands.
My hands were numb and cold,
still trying to restrain
you, whom my hurt told
never to end this pain.
But you snatched your lips away
from our bitterest kiss.
You invoked another place
than the dismal exile of this.
You said, ‘When we meet again,
in the shadow of olive-trees,
we shall kiss, in a love without pain,
under cloudless infinities.’
But there, alas, where the sky
shines with blue radiance,
where olive-tree shadows lie
on the waters glittering dance,
your beauty, your suffering,
are lost in eternity.
But the sweet kiss of our meeting ......
I wait for it: you owe it me .......

Pushed and pulled ‘til torn apart
Unprepared for a broken heart
Never feel the pain that’s hidden
To share my emotions is forbidden.
Keep it quiet keep it safe,
Never hear the voice that speaks.
In a hole dig it deep
personality
Has gone six feet.
Revenge is dreamt when I sleep
death is near when I wake
In hell I’ll be for I will sin
being punished for my deed
I will see that its wrong
Suicide is my way home.

How brightly glistening in the sun
The woodland ivy plays!
While yonder beeches from their barks
Reflect his silver rays.
That sun surveys a lovely scene
From softly smiling skies;
And wildly through unnumbered trees
The wind of winter sighs:
Now loud, it thunders o'er my head,
And now in distance dies.
But give me back my barren hills
Where colder breezes rise;
Where scarce the scattered, stunted trees
Can yield an answering swell,
But where a wilderness of heath
Returns the sound as well.
For yonder garden, fair and wide,
With groves of evergreen,
Long winding walks, and borders trim,
And velvet lawns between;
Restore to me that little spot,
With grey walls compassed round,
Where knotted grass neglected lies,
And weeds usurp the ground.
Though all around this mansion high
Invites the foot to roam,
And though its halls are fair within --
Oh, give me back my HOME!
Acton

Better than higher hotel
Home sweet home is better to be there
More than better areas for fun
Home sweet home is better for nap
More than a vacation to great states
Home sweet home is better space
More than a journey which costs a lot
Home sweet home is delicious to stay on
After heaven before all
Home sweet home is best of all
Home sweet home!

I want my own home
A home I’ll long to be in it
A home where there is real peace
A home I can get into
Anytime I wanted too
With the doors wide open
A home with a TV
A TV I can watch on
As long as I can
A home with a radio
Where I can play in full audio
To its loudness I can bear
A home with foods
Though it’s quite few
But will never be accounted
A home where me and my child
Can play around without restriction
Laugh with no inhibitions
A simple home I’ve wanted to
But too hard to be mine
Too hard to be called mine
01.01.06

A stranger lies ill, in a distant city,
With no - - letters from home!
The glances that meet him, in lieu of pity,
Are querring, "Why does he roam?"
"Oh, heed my request," says he, "else 'twere better
I slept in this gold-dusted loam;
Dismiss the physician, and bring a letter--
A flock of kind letters from home."
"Oh, heed my request," says he, "else 'twer better I
I slept in this gold-dusted loam;
Dismiss the physician, and bring a letter--
A flock of kind letters from home."
Like messenger doves, from across the mountains,
Cream tinted and golden and white?
Like the clouds that have sipp'd at the Eastern fountains
For thirsty land to take flight;
So come the dear missives--but ah! the stranger
Receives none to lighten his gloom;
In this time of sickness, this hour of danger,
Not ever one letter from home!
He moans in his slumber "Why did I ever
So far - - westwardly roam;
Oh, must I lie down must I sleep forever
With no loving letters from home?
My bones you may bury where winds are lifting
Pacific's broad billows in foam;
Or there on Lone Mountain, where sands are drifting,
But first, bring a letter from home."
"From the 'Golden' up to the portals pearly,"
He murmurs, "Oh can it be far?
On the sunset domain, in the morn how early
Will glimmer the Orient Star?
What light is the melting my shade like fetters?
What birds are those circling the dome?
Those messenger doves are my long sought letters
My flock of kind letters from home."
"They heed my request," says he, "best of debtors,
Their favors are whitening the dome!
Sweet messenger doves are my long sought letters,
My flock of kind letters from home."

What does a hangman think about
When he goes home at night from work?
When he sits down with his wife and
Children for a cup of coffee and a
Plate of ham and eggs, do they ask
Him if it was a good day's work
And everything went well or do they
Stay off some topics and kill about
The weather, baseball, politics
And the comic strips in the papers
And the movies? Do they look at his
Hands when he reaches for the coffee
Or the ham and eggs? If the little
Ones say, Daddy, play horse, here's
A rope--does he answer like a joke:
I seen enough rope for today?
Or does his face light up like a
Bonfire of joy and does he say:
It's a good and dandy world we live
'In. And if a white face moon looks
In through a window where a baby girl
Sleeps and the moon-gleams mix with
Baby ears and baby hair--the hangman--
How does he act then? It must be easy
For him. Anything is easy for a hangman,
I guess.

207
Tho' I get home how late—how late—
So I get home - 'twill compensate—
Better will be the Ecstasy
That they have done expecting me—
When Night—descending—dumb—and dark—
They hear my unexpected knock—
Transporting must the moment be—
Brewed from decades of Agony!
To think just how the fire will burn—
Just how long-cheated eyes will turn—
To wonder what myself will say,
And what itself, will say to me—
Beguiles the Centuries of way!

Hopes – that soar –
like kites in wind -
above the truth –
with wishes – twisting
in their tail –
pulling at the string
of the heart –
until – soaring -
we, up there too –
looking down on present self –
from our own future –
up there too,
faith, loving-kindness?

So many
Different dreary  worlds,
That it’s hard to make a choice,
Hard to choose at all,
Hard to have to.
Ahh, that’s it isn’t it? Choice.
The great commanding curse
Of freedom.  It’s very source.
No Freedom without it,
Only a painful apathy,
With no worry, and no hope.
For hope is always tight with worry,
Hope and dread, did I make the right choice?
Did I choose wrongly? The stress, anxiety
Over the future, over it’s hope.
Yet, and still, there are no wrong choices,
Just fleeting, frozen moments.
Forever, and without changes,
With no way to make them.
So don’t worry,
Just choose and go, follow
Freedom’s path to the next choice,
And don’t worry,
Enjoy the hope.

. . . . . . . .
Hope holds to Christ the mind’s own mirror out
To take His lovely likeness more and more.
It will not well, so she would bring about
An ever brighter burnish than before
And turns to wash it from her welling eyes
And breathes the blots off all with sighs on sighs.
Her glass is blest but she as good as blind
Holds till hand aches and wonders what is there;
Her glass drinks light, she darkles down behind,
All of her glorious gainings unaware.
. . . . . . . .
I told you that she turned her mirror dim
Betweenwhiles, but she sees herself not Him.
. . . . . . . .

The Tree of Knowledge we in Eden prov'd;
The Tree of Life was thence to Heav'n remov'd:
Hope is the growth of Earth, the only Plant,
Which either Heav'n, or Paradise cou'd want.
Hell knows it not, to Us alone confin'd,
And Cordial only to the Human Mind.
Receive it then, t'expel these mortal Cares,
Nor wave a Med'cine, which thy God prepares.

Hope is the sweet, sweet scent
of flowers in the morning
Hope is the cool gentle breeze
on a warm summer's day
Hope is the knowledge of stability
from a son in mourning
Hope is the bright shining light
keeping darkness at bay
Hope is the calming warmth
during a cold winter
Hope is the determination
of an athelete on the track
Hope is the potential
of a newborn baby
Hope is the love
between you and me
Hope springs eternal

I hope I hope
You will come
You will come to me
To take me.
I hope I hope
I get success
As I am non-envious
As I am equipoise.
I hope I hope
Your mercy is here
And I feel happy
With You.
I hope I hope I will
Enjoy real peace here at this time.

Switch off the TV, stop all sounds
Shut down the comp, turn off the lights
Let no one come calling
When I am alone.
Thoughts on the death row
Memories wheezing
like a worn away mono.
Emptiness is nothing
but a burnt away log
in the forest of impossibilities.
I didn’t hear you then,
I wouldn’t see you now
You are just an x-ray sheet
of soul painted in black.
You call me an escapist,
I only outran your lies.
I drank your tears
Cups of poison steeped in shame.
You are nothing but an effigy
Even ghosts fear to enter.
Come out of your own shadow
I ask you to face the mirror
Your image is nothing but pleasure
etched in horror.
Fade away into insignificance.
Please let me be me.
I can get real
With the vastness of time.

I believe that horses can heal,
I believe that their hearts feel all that we feel,
I believe that the joy from riding is real,
I believe that horses really can heal.
I see children riding and smiling with joy,
I see happy healthy girls and boys,
I see hope for life and wonder renewed,
I see love for the children coming to you.
I see dreams for the kids, who once were lost,
I see helping hands, no matter the cost,
I see friends for kids, who once were tossed,
I see children laughing and no longer lost.
I do believe that horses can heal,
I believe that horses make recovery real,
I believe being sober is a much better deal,
I really believe that horses can heal.
And I know that this land, its buildings and stones,
Insures that our children are never alone,
Insures that our horses and children are one,
Insures that their lives will finally be won.
Yes I do believe that horses can heal.
That recovery hope and dreams are real,
That God and love can make a child whole,
That all of this is the Stallions Hope role.

WHEN by my solitary hearth I sit,
And hateful thoughts enwrap my soul in gloom;
When no fair dreams before my "mind's eye" flit,
And the bare heath of life presents no bloom;
Sweet Hope, ethereal balm upon me shed,
And wave thy silver pinions o'er my head!
Whene'er I wander, at the fall of night,
Where woven boughs shut out the moon's bright ray,
Should sad Despondency my musings fright,
And frown, to drive fair Cheerfulness away,
Peep with the moonbeams through the leafy roof,
And keep that fiend Despondence far aloof!
Should Disappointment, parent of Despair,
Strive for her son to seize my careless heart;
When, like a cloud, he sits upon the air,
Preparing on his spell-bound prey to dart:
Chase him away, sweet Hope, with visage bright,
And fright him as the morning frightens night!
Whene'er the fate of those I hold most dear
Tells to my fearful breast a tale of sorrow,
O bright-eyed Hope, my morbidfancy cheer;
Let me awhile thy sweetest comforts borrow:
Thy heaven-born radiance around me shed,
And wave thy silver pinions o'er my head!
Should e'er unhappy love my bosom pain,
From cruel parents, or relentless fair;
O let me think it is not quite in vain
To sigh out sonnets to the midnight air!
Sweet Hope, ethereal balm upon me shed,
And wave thy silver pinions o'er my head!
In the long vista of the years to roll,
Let me not see our country's honour fade:
O let me see our land retain her soul,
Her pride, her freedom; and not freedom's shade.
From thy bright eyes unusual brightness shed---
Beneath thy pinions canopy my head!
Let me not see the patriot's high bequest,
Great Liberty! how great in plain attire!
With the base purple of a court oppress'd,
Bowing her head, and ready to expire:
But let me see thee stoop from heaven on wings
That fill the skies with silver glitterings!
And as, in sparkling majesty, a star
Gilds the bright summit of some gloomy cloud;
Brightening the half veil'd face of heaven afar:
So, when dark thoughts my boding spirit shroud,
Sweet Hope, celestial influence round me shed,
Waving thy silver pinions o'er my head!

After you’ve negotiated that artfully-conceived
sharp elbow bend in the long, grand drive
through the fields of its estate,
and it hoves into view,
you always gasp – this palace
- no, more like a temple with living quarters –
set deep in the countryside, yet as sure
as one in Athens or in Rome;
yet that too is artfully contrived -
the slight mound it’s built on,
the cunning proportion that magnifies,
disguises, with its public face
the aptness of a family home;
its public rooms so grand, just echoing enough
to magnify a public speech;  its family rooms
smallish, cosy; love and friendliness
live here. It says to the world,
stability; tradition re-affirmed; yet
this is our familiar family home.
It has its rooms, as rooms should be,
devoted to each family pursuit:
here’s the grand library
but here, with books so evidently, lovingly well read;
you almost missed the little girl, her hair and knees
curled round a book, deep in that leather green armchair;
the study, where your breathing seems to change,
there’s such a still and living silence here;
the nursery that emanates a lifetime’s care;
the children’s bedrooms set around it,
through which you ran and laughed and ran again; the window seats
from which you looked so wistfully
as childhood’s assurance faded into teenage questioning;
a house to leave,
a house to come back to;
a metaphor
as living, haunting, as the poetry it is.

Lord, thou hast given me a cell,
Wherein to dwell;
A little house, whose humble roof
Is weather proof;
Under the spars of which I lie
Both soft and dry;
Where thou, my chamber for to ward,
Hast set a guard
Of harmless thoughts, to watch and keep
Me, while I sleep.
Low is my porch, as is my fate;
Both void of state;
And yet the threshold of my door
Is worn by th' poor,
Who thither come, and freely get
Good words, or meat.
Like as my parlour, so my hall
And kitchen's small;
A little buttery, and therein
A little bin,
Which keeps my little loaf of bread
Unchipt, unflead;
Some brittle sticks of thorn or briar
Make me a fire,
Close by whose living coal I sit,
And glow like it.
Lord, I confess too, when I dine,
The pulse is thine,
And all those other bits that be
There placed by thee;
The worts, the purslain, and the mess
Of water-cress,
Which of thy kindness thou hast sent;
And my content
Makes those, and my beloved beet,
To be more sweet.
'Tis thou that crown'st my glittering hearth
With guiltless mirth,
And giv'st me wassail bowls to drink,
Spiced to the brink.
Lord, 'tis thy plenty-dropping hand
That soils my land,
And giv'st me, for my bushel sown,
Twice ten for one;
Thou mak'st my teeming hen to lay
Her egg each day;
Besides, my healthful ewes to bear
Me twins each year;
The while the conduits of my kine
Run cream, for wine:
All these, and better, thou dost send
Me, to this end,--
That I should render, for my part,
A thankful heart;
Which, fired with incense, I resign,
As wholly thine;
--But the acceptance, that must be,
My Christ, by Thee.

Indoors the tang of a tiny oil lamp. Outdoors
The winking signal on the waste of sea.
Indoors the sound of the wind. Outdoors the wind.
Indoors the locked heart and the lost key.
Outdoors the chill, the void, the siren. Indoors
The strong man pained to find his red blood cools,
While the blind clock grows louder, faster. Outdoors
The silent moon, the garrulous tides she rules.
Indoors ancestral curse-cum-blessing. Outdoors
The empty bowl of heaven, the empty deep.
Indoors a purposeful man who talks at cross
Purposes, to himself, in a broken sleep.

And this reft house is that the which he built,
Lamented Jack ! And here his malt he pil'd,
Cautious in vain ! These rats that squeak so wild,
Squeak, not unconscious of their father's guilt.
Did ye not see her gleaming thro' the glade ?
Belike, 'twas she, the maiden all forlorn.
What though she milk no cow with crumpled horn,
Yet aye she haunts the dale where erst she stray'd ;
And aye beside her stalks her amorous knight !
Still on his thighs their wonted brogues are worn,
And thro' those brogues, still tatter'd and betorn,
His hindward charms gleam an unearthly white ;
As when thro' broken clouds at night's high noon
Peeps in fair fragments forth the full-orb'd harvest-moon !

Love I was shewn upon the mountain-side
And bid to catch Him ere the dropp of day.
See, Love, I creep and Thou on wings dost ride:
Love it is evening now and Thou away;
Love, it grows darker here and Thou art above;
Love, come down to me if Thy name be Love.
My national old Egyptian reed gave way;
I took of vine a cross-barred rod or rood.
Then next I hungered:  Love when here, they say,
Or once or never took love's proper food;
But I must yield the chase, or rest and eat. -
Peace and food cheered me where four rough ways meet.
Hear yet my paradox:  Love, when all is given,
To see Thee I must [see] Thee, to love, love;
I must o'ertake Thee at once and under heaven
If I shall overtake Thee at last above.
You have your wish; enter these walls, one said:
He is with you in the breaking of the bread.

More towers must yet be built—more towers destroyed—
Great rocks hoisted in air;
And he must seek his bread in high pale sunlight
With gulls about him, and clouds just over his eyes . . .
And so he did not mention his dream of falling
But drank his coffee in silence, and heard in his ears
That horrible whistle of wind, and felt his breath
Sucked out of him, and saw the tower flash by
And the small tree swell beneath him . . .
He patted his boy on the head, and kissed his wife,
Looked quickly around the room, to remember it,—
And so went out . . .  For once, he forgot his pail.
Something had changed—but it was not the street—
The street was just the same—it was himself.
Puddles flashed in the sun.  In the pawn-shop door
The same old black cat winked green amber eyes;
The butcher stood by his window tying his apron;
The same men walked beside him, smoking pipes,
Reading the morning paper . . .
He would not yield, he thought, and walk more slowly,
As if he knew for certain he walked to death:
But with his usual pace,—deliberate, firm,
Looking about him calmly, watching the world,
Taking his ease . . .  Yet, when he thought again
Of the same dream, now dreamed three separate times,
Always the same, and heard that whistling wind,
And saw the windows flashing upward past him,—
He slowed his pace a little, and thought with horror
How monstrously that small tree thrust to meet him! . . .
He slowed his pace a little and remembered his wife.
Was forty, then, too old for work like this?
Why should it be?  He'd never been afraid—
His eye was sure, his hand was steady . . .
But dreams had meanings.
He walked more slowly, and looked along the roofs,
All built by men, and saw the pale blue sky;
And suddenly he was dizzy with looking at it,
It seemed to whirl and swim,
It seemed the color of terror, of speed, of death . . .
He lowered his eyes to the stones, he walked more slowly;
His thoughts were blown and scattered like leaves;
He thought of the pail . . . Why, then, was it forgotten?
Because he would not need it?
Then, just as he was grouping his thoughts again
About that drug-store corner, under an arc-lamp,
Where first he met the girl whom he would marry,—
That blue-eyed innocent girl, in a soft blouse,—
He waved his hand for signal, and up he went
In the dusty chute that hugged the wall;
Above the tree; from girdered floor to floor;
Above the flattening roofs, until the sea
Lay wide and waved before him . . . And then he stepped
Giddily out, from that security,
To the red rib of iron against the sky,
And walked along it, feeling it sing and tremble;
And looking down one instant, saw the tree
Just as he dreamed it was; and looked away,
And up again, feeling his blood go wild.
He gave the signal; the long girder swung
Closer to him, dropped clanging into place,
Almost pushing him off.  Pneumatic hammers
Began their madhouse clatter, the white-hot rivets
Were tossed from below and deftly caught in pails;
He signalled again, and wiped his mouth, and thought
A place so high in the air should be more quiet.
The tree, far down below, teased at his eyes,
Teased at the corners of them, until he looked,
And felt his body go suddenly small and light;
Felt his brain float off like a dwindling vapor;
And heard a whistle of wind, and saw a tree
Come plunging up to him, and thought to himself,
'By God—I'm done for now, the dream was right . . .'

The lamplit page is turned, the dream forgotten;
The music changes tone, you wake, remember
Deep worlds you lived before,—deep worlds hereafter
Of leaf on falling leaf, music on music,
Rain and sorrow and wind and dust and laughter.
Helen was late and Miriam came too soon.
Joseph was dead, his wife and children starving.
Elaine was married and soon to have a child.
You dreamed last night of fiddler-crabs with fiddles;
They played a buzzing melody, and you smiled.
To-morrow—what?  And what of yesterday?
Through soundless labyrinths of dream you pass,
Through many doors to the one door of all.
Soon as it's opened we shall hear a music:
Or see a skeleton fall . . .
We walk with you.  Where is it that you lead us?
We climb the muffled stairs beneath high lanterns.
We descend again.  We grope through darkened cells.
You say: this darkness, here, will slowly kill me.
It creeps and weighs upon me . . . Is full of bells.
This is the thing remembered I would forget—
No matter where I go, how soft I tread,
This windy gesture menaces me with death.
Fatigue! it says, and points its finger at me;
Touches my throat and stops my breath.
My fans—my jewels—the portrait of my husband—
The torn certificate for my daughter's grave—
These are but mortal seconds in immortal time.
They brush me, fade away: like drops of water.
They signify no crime.
Let us retrace our steps: I have deceived you:
Nothing is here I could not frankly tell you:
No hint of guilt, or faithlessness, or threat.
Dreams—they are madness.  Staring eyes—illusion.
Let us return, hear music, and forget . . .

Well, as you say, we live for small horizons:
We move in crowds, we flow and talk together,
Seeing so many eyes and hands and faces,
So many mouths, and all with secret meanings,—
Yet know so little of them; only seeing
The small bright circle of our consciousness,
Beyond which lies the dark.  Some few we know—
Or think we know. . .  Once, on a sun-bright morning,
I walked in a certain hallway, trying to find
A certain door: I found one, tried it, opened,
And there in a spacious chamber, brightly lighted,
A hundred men played music, loudly, swiftly,
While one tall woman sent her voice above them
In powerful sweetness. . . .Closing then the door
I heard it die behind me, fade to whisper,—
And walked in a quiet hallway as before.
Just such a glimpse, as through that opened door,
Is all we know of those we call our friends. . . .
We hear a sudden music, see a playing
Of ordered thoughts—and all again is silence.
The music, we suppose, (as in ourselves)
Goes on forever there, behind shut doors,—
As it continues after our departure,
So, we divine, it played before we came . . .
What do you know of me, or I of you? . . .
Little enough. . . .We set these doors ajar
Only for chosen movements of the music:
This passage, (so I think—yet this is guesswork)
Will please him,—it is in a strain he fancies,—
More brilliant, though, than his; and while he likes it
He will be piqued . . . He looks at me bewildered
And thinks (to judge from self—this too is guesswork)
The music strangely subtle, deep in meaning,
Perplexed with implications; he suspects me
Of hidden riches, unexpected wisdom. . . .
Or else I let him hear a lyric passage,—
Simple and clear; and all the while he listens
I make pretence to think my doors are closed.
This too bewilders him.  He eyes me sidelong
Wondering 'Is he such a fool as this?
Or only mocking?'—There I let it end. . . .
Sometimes, of course, and when we least suspect it—
When we pursue our thoughts with too much passion,
Talking with too great zeal—our doors fly open
Without intention; and the hungry watcher
Stares at the feast, carries away our secrets,
And laughs. . . .but this, for many counts, is seldom.
And for the most part we vouchsafe our friends,
Our lovers too, only such few clear notes
As we shall deem them likely to admire:
'Praise me for this' we say, or 'laugh at this,'
Or 'marvel at my candor'. . . .all the while
Withholding what's most precious to ourselves,—
Some sinister depth of lust or fear or hatred,
The sombre note that gives the chord its power;
Or a white loveliness—if such we know—
Too much like fire to speak of without shame.
Well, this being so, and we who know it being
So curious about those well-locked houses,
The minds of those we know,—to enter softly,
And steal from floor to floor up shadowy stairways,
From room to quiet room, from wall to wall,
Breathing deliberately the very air,
Pressing our hands and nerves against warm darkness
To learn what ghosts are there,—
Suppose for once I set my doors wide open
And bid you in. . . .Suppose I try to tell you
The secrets of this house, and how I live here;
Suppose I tell you who I am, in fact. . . .
Deceiving you—as far as I may know it—
Only so much as I deceive myself.
If you are clever you already see me
As one who moves forever in a cloud
Of warm bright vanity: a luminous cloud
Which falls on all things with a quivering magic,
Changing such outlines as a light may change,
Brightening what lies dark to me, concealing
Those things that will not change . . . I walk sustained
In a world of things that flatter me: a sky
Just as I would have had it; trees and grass
Just as I would have shaped and colored them;
Pigeons and clouds and sun and whirling shadows,
And stars that brightening climb through mist at nightfall,—
In some deep way I am aware these praise me:
Where they are beautiful, or hint of beauty,
They point, somehow, to me. . . .This water says,—
Shimmering at the sky, or undulating
In broken gleaming parodies of clouds,
Rippled in blue, or sending from cool depths
To meet the falling leaf the leaf's clear image,—
This water says, there is some secret in you
Akin to my clear beauty, silently responsive
To all that circles you.  This bare tree says,—
Austere and stark and leafless, split with frost,
Resonant in the wind, with rigid branches
Flung out against the sky,—this tall tree says,
There is some cold austerity in you,
A frozen strength, with long roots gnarled on rocks,
Fertile and deep; you bide your time, are patient,
Serene in silence, bare to outward seeming,
Concealing what reserves of power and beauty!
What teeming Aprils!—chorus of leaves on leaves!
These houses say, such walls in walls as ours,
Such streets of walls, solid and smooth of surface,
Such hills and cities of walls, walls upon walls;
Motionless in the sun, or dark with rain;
Walls pierced with windows, where the light may enter;
Walls windowless where darkness is desired;
Towers and labyrinths and domes and chambers,—
Amazing deep recesses, dark on dark,—
All these are like the walls which shape your spirit:
You move, are warm, within them, laugh within them,
Proud of their depth and strength; or sally from them,
When you are bold, to blow great horns at the world. .
This deep cool room, with shadowed walls and ceiling,
Tranquil and cloistral, fragrant of my mind,
This cool room says,—just such a room have you,
It waits you always at the tops of stairways,
Withdrawn, remote, familiar to your uses,
Where you may cease pretence and be yourself. . . .
And this embroidery, hanging on this wall,
Hung there forever,—these so soundless glidings
Of dragons golden-scaled, sheer birds of azure,
Coilings of leaves in pale vermilion, griffins
Drawing their rainbow wings through involutions
Of mauve chrysanthemums and lotus flowers,—
This goblin wood where someone cries enchantment,—
This says, just such an involuted beauty
Of thought and coiling thought, dream linked with dream,
Image to image gliding, wreathing fires,
Soundlessly cries enchantment in your mind:
You need but sit and close your eyes a moment
To see these deep designs unfold themselves.
And so, all things discern me, name me, praise me—
I walk in a world of silent voices, praising;
And in this world you see me like a wraith
Blown softly here and there, on silent winds.
'Praise me'—I say; and look, not in a glass,
But in your eyes, to see my image there—
Or in your mind; you smile, I am contented;
You look at me, with interest unfeigned,
And listen—I am pleased; or else, alone,
I watch thin bubbles veering brightly upward
From unknown depths,—my silver thoughts ascending;
Saying now this, now that, hinting of all things,—
Dreams, and desires, velleities, regrets,
Faint ghosts of memory, strange recognitions,—
But all with one deep meaning: this is I,
This is the glistening secret holy I,
This silver-winged wonder, insubstantial,
This singing ghost. . . .And hearing, I am warmed.
*     *     *     *     *
You see me moving, then, as one who moves
Forever at the centre of his circle:
A circle filled with light.  And into it
Come bulging shapes from darkness, loom gigantic,
Or huddle in dark again. . . .A clock ticks clearly,
A gas-jet steadily whirs, light streams across me;
Two church bells, with alternate beat, strike nine;
And through these things my pencil pushes softly
To weave grey webs of lines on this clear page.
Snow falls and melts; the eaves make liquid music;
Black wheel-tracks line the snow-touched street; I turn
And look one instant at the half-dark gardens,
Where skeleton elm-trees reach with frozen gesture
Above unsteady lamps,—with black boughs flung
Against a luminous snow-filled grey-gold sky.
'Beauty!' I cry. . . .My feet move on, and take me
Between dark walls, with orange squares for windows.
Beauty; beheld like someone half-forgotten,
Remembered, with slow pang, as one neglected . . .
Well, I am frustrate; life has beaten me,
The thing I strongly seized has turned to darkness,
And darkness rides my heart. . . .These skeleton elm-trees—
Leaning against that grey-gold snow filled sky—
Beauty! they say, and at the edge of darkness
Extend vain arms in a frozen gesture of protest . . .
A clock ticks softly; a gas-jet steadily whirs:
The pencil meets its shadow upon clear paper,
Voices are raised, a door is slammed.  The lovers,
Murmuring in an adjacent room, grow silent,
The eaves make liquid music. . . .Hours have passed,
And nothing changes, and everything is changed.
Exultation is dead, Beauty is harlot,—
And walks the streets.  The thing I strongly seized
Has turned to darkness, and darkness rides my heart.
If you could solve this darkness you would have me.
This causeless melancholy that comes with rain,
Or on such days as this when large wet snowflakes
Drop heavily, with rain . . . whence rises this?
Well, so-and-so, this morning when I saw him,
Seemed much preoccupied, and would not smile;
And you, I saw too much; and you, too little;
And the word I chose for you, the golden word,
The word that should have struck so deep in purpose,
And set so many doors of wish wide open,
You let it fall, and would not stoop for it,
And smiled at me, and would not let me guess
Whether you saw it fall. . . These things, together,
With other things, still slighter, wove to music,
And this in time drew up dark memories;
And there I stand.  This music breaks and bleeds me,
Turning all frustrate dreams to chords and discords,
Faces and griefs, and words, and sunlit evenings,
And chains self-forged that will not break nor lengthen,
And cries that none can answer, few will hear.
Have these things meaning?  Or would you see more clearly
If I should say 'My second wife grows tedious,
Or, like gay tulip, keeps no perfumed secret'?
Or 'one day dies eventless as another,
Leaving the seeker still unsatisfied,
And more convinced life yields no satisfaction'?
Or 'seek too hard, the sight at length grows callous,
And beauty shines in vain'?—
These things you ask for,
These you shall have. . . So, talking with my first wife,
At the dark end of evening, when she leaned
And smiled at me, with blue eyes weaving webs
Of finest fire, revolving me in scarlet,—
Calling to mind remote and small successions
Of countless other evenings ending so,—
I smiled, and met her kiss, and wished her dead;
Dead of a sudden sickness, or by my hands
Savagely killed; I saw her in her coffin,
I saw her coffin borne downstairs with trouble,
I saw myself alone there, palely watching,
Wearing a masque of grief so deeply acted
That grief itself possessed me.  Time would pass,
And I should meet this girl,—my second wife—
And drop the masque of grief for one of passion.
Forward we move to meet, half hesitating,
We drown in each others' eyes, we laugh, we talk,
Looking now here, now there, faintly pretending
We do not hear the powerful pulsing prelude
Roaring beneath our words . . . The time approaches.
We lean unbalanced.  The mute last glance between us,
Profoundly searching, opening, asking, yielding,
Is steadily met: our two lives draw together . . .
. . . .'What are you thinking of?'. . . .My first wife's voice
Scattered these ghosts.  'Oh nothing—nothing much—
Just wondering where we'd be two years from now,
And what we might be doing . . . ' And then remorse
Turned sharply in my mind to sudden pity,
And pity to echoed love.  And one more evening
Drew to the usual end of sleep and silence.
And, as it is with this, so too with all things.
The pages of our lives are blurred palimpsest:
New lines are wreathed on old lines half-erased,
And those on older still; and so forever.
The old shines through the new, and colors it.
What's new?  What's old?  All things have double meanings,—
All things return.  I write a line with passion
(Or touch a woman's hand, or plumb a doctrine)
Only to find the same thing, done before,—
Only to know the same thing comes to-morrow. . . .
This curious riddled dream I dreamed last night,—
Six years ago I dreamed it just as now;
The same man stooped to me; we rose from darkness,
And broke the accustomed order of our days,
And struck for the morning world, and warmth, and freedom. . . .
What does it mean?  Why is this hint repeated?
What darkness does it spring from, seek to end?
You see me, then, pass up and down these stairways,
Now through a beam of light, and now through shadow,—
Pursuing silent ends.  No rest there is,—
No more for me than you.  I move here always,
From quiet room to room, from wall to wall,
Searching and plotting, weaving a web of days.
This is my house, and now, perhaps, you know me. . .
Yet I confess, for all my best intentions,
Once more I have deceived you. . . .I withhold
The one thing precious, the one dark thing that guides me;
And I have spread two snares for you, of lies.

In through the porch and up the silent stair;
Little is changed, I know so well the ways;--
Here, the dead came to meet me; it was there
The dream was dreamed in unforgotten days.
But who is this that hurries on before,
A flitting shade the brooding shades among?--
She turned,--I saw her face,--O God, it wore
The face I used to wear when I was young!
I thought my spirit and my heart were tamed
To deadness; dead the pangs that agonise.
The old grief springs to choke me,--I am shamed
Before that little ghost with eager eyes.
O turn away, let her not see, not know!
How should she bear it, how should understand?
O hasten down the stairway, haste and go,
And leave her dreaming in the silent land.

Complex, can't understand,
A simple man,
My husband.
Sharing my body,
Bear your child and suffer,
But, yet no regrets.

Eating, wearing flowers, delight in heart
and beautifying are all only for him, to see!
O' my friend!  While knowing that in spite
of my husband had left me for earning sake,
you had come to beautify me,
Is it not your ignorance?
(him - husband)
(accompanying maid or friend helps in beautifying the girl)

When feares and sorrowes me besett,
Then did'st thou rid me out;
When heart did faint and spirits quail,
Thou comforts me about.
Thou rais'st him vp I feard to loose,
Regau'st me him again:
Distempers thou didst chase away;
With strenght didst him sustain.
My thankfull heart, with Pen record
The Goodnes of thy God;
Let thy obedience testefye
He taught thee by his rod.
And with his staffe did thee support,
That thou by both may'st learn;
And 'twixt the good and evill way,
At last, thou mig'st discern.
Praises to him who hath not left
My Soul as destitute;
Nor turnd his ear away from me,
But graunted hath my Suit.

Since you've been away,
i feel an empty space that can never be replaced.
Everyday i have to feel these tears roll down my face,
because of all the memories i just cant erase.
Hubby i just need to have you home.
It hurts me too much when i hear your voice over a phone.
2 weeks jared? that is way too long.
By then im sure my mind will be gone, but for you mi amor,
i will stay strong, i will hold on.
I feel so lost without you.
Move on & live my life? i don't want to.
To be honest that is something my heart wont let me do.
No matter how many timez i try.
My love is to strong to be with you.
You're the one & only man for me.
I truely believe we were meant to be.
Every day that i live without you i feel my heart breaking.
With every breath im taking,
every move im making & every smile im faking.
HUBBY I LOVE YOU.
I'll be right here...
Waiting.

Love is my husband,
Affection is wife,
Happiness is son,
Holy place is earth,
Friendship with air,
Running life in water,
The world, the settled place,
Hope not again to return.

In promises of winter end,
was our beginning.
My aching heart beats quicker at the mention of your name.
My soul longs for your touch.
The evening descends; on great owl wings.
I am calmed by your aromas;
It carries me into the dawn;
and your eyes hold me as none before.
I am filled hoping I may be the desire of your heart.
As my lips fall upon yours,
may you know you are my heart desire?
I look for the last gestures of winter end.
I remember my husband,
our day we became as one.
Those years have passed us by,
I still remember that winter day;
as it was yesterday.
My feverish hand lifts to your face.
that we may kiss as one.
We walk hand to hand as husband and wife.
As We began our life a new,
until my last dying breathe.
I Love You.

WHEN Francis (named the first) o'er Frenchmen reign'd,
In Italy young Arthur laurels gained,
And oft such daring valour showed in fight,
With ev'ry honour he was made a knight;
The monarch placed the spur upon his heel,
That all around his proper worth might feel.
Then household deities at home he sought,
Where--not at prayers his beauteous dame he caught:
He'd left her, truly, quite dissolv'd in tears;
But now the belle had bid adieu to fears;
And oft was dancing joyously around,
With all the company that could be found.
GALLANTS in crowds Sir Arthur soon perceived;
At sight of these the knight was sorely grieved;
And, turning in his mind how best to act;
Cried he, Can this be truly held a fact,
That I've been worthy while I'd fame in view,
Of cuckoldom at home, and knighthood too?
It ought to be but half:--the truth let's know;
From constancy the purest blessings flow.
Then like a father-confessor he dressed,
And took his seat where priests their flock confessed.
His lady absolution sought that day,
And on her knees before him 'gan to pray;
The minor sins were told with downcast eyes,
And then for hearing those of larger size,
The husband-confessor prepared his ears:--
Said she, Good father, ('mid a flood of tears),
My bed receives, (the fault I fear's not slight,)
A gentleman, a parson, and a knight.
Still more had followed, but, by rage o'ercome,
Sir Arthur cut the thread, and she was mum;
Though, doubtless, had the fair been let proceed,
Quite long her Litany had been decreed.
THe husband, in a rage, exclaimed, thou jade,
A parson, say'st thou? t'whom dost think thou'st made
This curst confession?--To my spouse, cried she,
I saw you enter here, and came with glee,
Supposing you'd a trick to raise surprise;
Howe'er 'tis strange that one so very wise,
The riddle should not fully comprehend:--
A KNIGHT, the king created you, my friend;
A GENTLEMAN, your rank was long ago;
A PARSON, you have made yourself you know.
Good heav'ns! exclaimed the knight, 'tis very clear,
And I a blockhead surely must appear

I hope that you realize your confessions are a burden to me
Much as I love you like a brother, your words are corrupting me
I don't really know what possesses you to unburden yourself to me
Is 'sister confessor' tattoed in my forehead for everyone to see
You claim that your wife is lovely and treats you right
So why on earth do you go to these clubs and have menage a trois
You say you feel so guilty, yet compartmentalize your life
Once her Lexus is out of the garage,  down the drain it goes your facade
I will never betray you, I will never tell her
And I want you to know I will not fall under your spell
Get over yourself, you juvenile clown
Get real, smell the coffee and frown
**10/12/08

O thou Most High who rulest all
And hear'st the prayers of thine,
O hearken, Lord, unto my suit
And my petition sign.
Into Thy everlasting arms Of mercy
I commend Thy servant, Lord.
Keep and preserve My husband,
my dear friend.
At Thy command, O Lord, he went,
Nor nought could keep him back.
Then let Thy promise joy his heart,
O help and be not slack.
Uphold my heart in Thee, O God.
Thou art my strength and stay,
Thou see'st how weak and frail I am,
Hide not Thy face away.
I in obedience to Thy will
Thou knowest did submit.
It was my duty so to do;
O Lord, accept of it.
Unthankfulness for mercies past
Impute Thou not to me.
O Lord, Thou know'st my weak desire
Was to sing praise to Thee.
Lord, be Thou pilot to the ship
And send them prosperous gales.
In storms and sickness, Lord, preserve.
Thy goodness never fails.
Unto Thy work he hath in hand
Lord, grant Thou good success
And favour in their eyes to whom
He shall make his address.
Remember, Lord, Thy folk whom Thou
To wilderness hast brought;
Let not Thine own inheritance
Be sold away for nought.
But tokens of Thy favour give,
With joy send back my dear
That I and all Thy servants may
Rejoice with heavenly cheer.
Lord, let my eyes see once again
Him whom Thou gavest me
That we together may sing praise
Forever unto Thee.
And the remainder of our days
Shall consecrated be
With an engaged heart to sing
All praises unto Thee.

i am reborn every morning
when i rise expecting
good things from the day
getting my dose of raw reality
as the day moves along
by nightfall i crawl into bed
remembering i have been through
this kind of thing before
the almighty identity crisis
every six or seven years
it comes without fail
i am uncomfortable feeling this frail
knowing i may change on the inside
or rearrange things on the outside
i should be used to it by now
my only consolation is in knowing
i will come out of it
stonger and more self-assured than beforehand
written 11-11-05

Haiku-Identity
============
A bubble on the sea
To the sea asking what is
My identity.

From the alpine windswept quartz
rose the beautiful Frau Schwarz.
Wrote a comment erudite
(every member has that right)
but the toes of fruity cakes
cannot carry what it takes
'be a man' Frau Schwarz did ask
but it was a hopeless task.
He could neither cause delete
to her words, so in defeat
he turned all his dull attention
to another, just to mention
that he knew that Mrs. Schwarz
in her inner heart of hearts
would not criticise or knock
any Arizona cock.
So the answer simply must
be that someone full of frust
took on her identity
just to comment and to pee
on his eye-brow-raising work.
Boy he must be such a jerk.
Now the story makes more sense
people like his poems, hence
he can go back to the school
doesn't look like such a fool.
Yet, there is a little flaw
once you go into the draw
with the world of those who can
you come out a tiny man.

I asked myself who iam.
I was looking for identity.
I felt the silent of my soul.
No answer.
I looked at the stars one by one.
They asked for identity too.

She doesn’t know
what i’m on the other side
friend or foe!
i don’t know
the other side hides her
she doesn’t show!
consciously we don’t peep
it's how we keep
the mystery jealously!

Losing identity
I accept everything
I push myself back
I support myself straight.
You remember me
As I remember you
I accept you whole
Not forgetting
A single mole.

The mother lay in a stupor filled
With alcohol and drugs,
The twins lay wet in the carry-cot
And screamed at the top of their lungs,
The boyfriend of the moment sat
At a bar in a nearby town,
Drinking away the welfare cheque
And taking them further down.
Sally Pearce was a homely girl
As such, and easily led,
Many a teenage male had found
His way to her maiden bed,
They bought her favours with alcohol
And hooked her on cocaine,
They so befuddled her mind that she
Could not remember her name.
So Jack had her in the morning when
The sun was low in the sky,
While Derek had her lunch when she
Had snorted coke, and was high,
She carried the seeds of both of them
And both of them found a home,
Embedded deep in her ovaries
As she lay drugged out, alone.
So when she heard she was having twins
She didn't know who to blame,
But thought it must be the first of them
So gave the twins Jack's name,
She didn't know that their fathers were
As different as chalk and cheese,
For Jack passed on a criminal gene
While Derek passed S.T.D's.
The first one born was Timothy,
With a mop of jet black hair,
Then twenty minutes to follow on
Came Adam, so pale and fair,
They could have been Cain and Abel
If she'd only studied the book,
For Adam was such a happy child
While Tim had an evil look.
She hardly saw them growing up
They learned to fend for themselves,
They'd go and ransack the kitchen
Pulling the food right off the shelves,
The boyfriends came and the boyfriends went
In a long, continuous line,
They didn't know what a father was
Nor a mother, most of the time.
The only love that they ever knew
Was their love for the brother twin,
For they were the only constants as
The others came out and in,
While Adam took to his books and proved
A whiz at Math in his school,
Timothy fought a constant war
To tell the truth, he was cruel.
He punched the boys and tortured the girls
And dipped their plaits in the ink,
Protected Adam from bullies and fools
But never had cause to think,
Adam went on to Uni while
Timothy took to the street,
Dealing in drugs, and taking home
Enough for his mother to eat.
Adam had met a girl called Gaye
She liked that his eyes were brown,
He gave her his sophomore ring one day
Escorted her round the town,
She wanted to meet his brother, Tim
But Adam would not be drawn,
He said that his brother had gone away
‘Til he called one day, to the dorm.
Timothy's eyes had met with Gaye's
And they felt a shock of delight,
For opposites often attract, they say,
As day will follow on night,
For Gaye was ripe with an innocence
That will fall for an evil spell,
So Timothy started meeting her
In the quad, by the old stairwell.
They found her body at Easter-time
Down an old storm-water drain,
Raped and beaten, her throat was cut,
And they said, ‘He must be insane! '
Adam was taken down to the cells
And grilled for almost a day,
‘You were the girl's last boyfriend,
We'll be taking your D.N.A.'
The D.N.A. was almost a match
Enough for a guilty plea,
While Adam strongly denied the charge,
‘It certainly wasn't me! '
He didn't mention his brother's name,
But hoped he would see the day
When Timothy came to visit him,
But Timothy went away.
They came for him in the dawning light
And marched him into the shed,
His lips were trembling as he stood
And bit his lip ‘til it bled,
‘Any last words you'd like to say
Before you pay for your sin? '
The rope had tightened around his neck
When he almost whispered, ‘…'
22 November 2012

Lion hearted man
But like stone
No emotions
But only confusion
Who cares?
And stares
At beautiful and handsome
If that is person
You hear no one
You listen to no person
You go aimlessly
And will not change hopefully
You have no feelings
Only believe in stealing
And hurt sentiments
That is real picture at present
I shall close eyes
And try
Not to be same
For my identity to claim

Traditional in
Appearance I am, but looks
Can be deceiving!

A precious child, my little grand-daughter,
full of chuckles, love and great laughter.
Filled with innocence through and through,
with lots of hugs and kisses too.
I know proud grandparents will all agree,
the love we receive is precious and free.
They have no motives, no deep held secrets.
Holding on to us tight, cradled in our arms
filling us with a calm of their innocent charms.
Written:  Sept.29,2007
Note:
It is said, “Having a child fall asleep in your
arms is one of the most peaceful feelings in
the world”.

CRY OF INNOCENCE
Night when deep by the lightening
Rose yet promises the rambles of smile
darkness walks through the silence
rain still tears all mute by the blue
the waves yet dazing on the beach
call when defrayed by the impulse
love still snaffles by the crooning
moments seems to defuse by the bliss
the reeks when fester by knowing
when reconciled by the reef of reason
star yet blinks to its lap when swings
sun in its rise by the warmth in redolence
breath of silhouette yet subtle intoned
even intense by embracing the whispers
vale of tunes when shimmers from all secrets
the clogging undertones the cry of innocence

Her innocence shattered,
Like bullets through glass.
The pieces are confusion
in all if its glory.
The act incomprehensible
Just seconds of pleasure.
Brought down
To his knees
By the consequence.
Time heals the scar,
But not the memory.
(Dec.25,1995. San Jose, Ca.)

Innocence is not an absence of legal guilt
Innocence is not freedom from specific wrongs
Innocence is a quality state of freedom from sins guilt
loss of innocence no integral part
of maturity necessary coming of age
awareness of world pain suffering evil
Innocence is not absence of normative experience
Innocence is not ignorance not knowing evil
Innocence is affirmation a naked sinless nature
Innocence is choice verification of brilliant divinity light

Love is delicate,
As like the petals of a rose
Love is innocent,
like the purity of a rose
Love is delightful,
like the smell of a rose
Love hurts,
like the thorns of a rose.
Love begins,
like a seed.
and like a rose,
If you water it;
It grows.

i grew up to see
how cruel world can be
first step outside the home
oh! it was better in the womb
expected people to be
like in fairytale movie
but the truth is darker
more darker then i see
i ran after desires
only to get wounded knee
people live without a soul
no emotions i can see
i realise i havent grown yet
want to go back to the cocoon i left
yet i have to fight
to make tomorrow bright
sometimes in the fight
starving for the light
remember you can loose
the innocence inside
no matter i lose or win
innocence keeps me away from sin
yes, i'm holding it
deep down my skin
and the day i die
i wish i die with innocence still within..........

I swam through the snow
I swam the laps of innocence
The laps of an angel by my side
The sound of laughter by my side
The happiness swimming abreast of me
I rolled down the hills of light
I rolled unrolling the scrolls of innocence
The scrolls of all the white by my side
The hues of a multitude of smiles by my side
Joy cries joy screams abreast of me
It was so easy so easy to swim
So easy to swim the laps of innocence
The laps of an angel by my side
The sound of laughter by my side
The happiness swimming abreast of me
So easy to roll down the hills of light
To roll unrolling the scrolls of innocence
The scrolls of the white by my side
The hues of a multitude of smiles by my side
Joy cries joy screams abreast of me
The flickering whiteprints of a snowflake heart
The twinkling joy of my fast beating heart
The sparkling breath of my wind spinned heart
The shimmering light of my angel fed heart
The beat the beat of the snow spelled heart
So beautifully taken breath blown away
©Miroslava Odalovic

Piping down the valleys wild,
Piping songs of pleasant glee,
On a cloud I saw a child,
And he laughing said to me:
'Pipe a song about a Lamb!'
So I piped with merry cheer.
'Piper, pipe that song again;'
So I piped: he wept to hear.
'Drop thy pipe, thy happy pipe;
Sing thy songs of happy cheer!'
So I sung the same again,
While he wept with joy to hear.
'Piper, sit thee down and write
In a book that all may read.'
So he vanish'd from my sight;
And I pluck'd a hollow reed,
And I made a rural pen,
And I stain'd the water clear,
And I wrote my happy songs
Every child may joy to hear.

I flicked of the TV
At a news report
About another child
Lost in innocence no more
I was once
An innocent child
Living so happy
Till I was dealt
One of life's blows
And just like the children
I learn of today
Losing their innocence
That's torn from their souls
It drowns us all
In the degradation of life
I want to scream
I want to shout
Make all this carnage stop
Why do you ask?
Would I even bother to say?
I just want you to know
What its like for a child
To lose in themselves
The innocence of gold
You cry with a passion
Inside your lost soul
You know not what to say
You know not what to do
You feel so alone
You feel so used
You hide all your secrets
And you cry every day
And pray ever night
Oh God take my life
You drown in your sorrows
Every single day
And wonder each time
What have I done in my life?
To deserve such cruelty
That's dealt this cruel life
But life goes on
You learn to be brave
You learn to ignore
Your family and friends
You learn to ignore
An out stretched hand
I know I am lucky
To be here today
So I advocate for children
Still trapped in this fate

! 4th January is called here as Uttrayan
Tilting of Sun from South to Uttar (North)
The position of sun will alter
The days from now onwards will be longer
Sky will be full of kites
The slogans will be chanted with full religious rites
Whole population will be on roof top
The kites will be flying non stop
Billions of rupees will be spent on kites
Many birds will loose their lives
The loss of human lives too from free fall
Religious fever with all advices to receive unheeded call
It has witnessed age long tradition
Old or young take part without any reservation
Festival of great fervor with message and joy
Open for all irrespective of anything to participate and enjoy
Not in many parts but in some of the Indian parts it is known
The Chinese are believed to be originator with tradition to own
The favorable wind bring competition to the climax
Complete holiday to spend the day with joy and relax
The climate change is linked with the festival
The spring also coincides with its arrival
The winter may be losing its grip from here on
The hard climate may soon be forgotten or gone

A sick day a sick day
I'll not make it all year
My class is all here
Down to each little sneer
A sick day a sick day
I'll not make it all year
Those cute little creatures
Have nothing to fear
A sick day a sick day
I'll not make it all year
Still knowing that teacher's
not entirely all here
A sick day a sick day
I'll not make it all year
Each little tear
Makes it perfectly clear
A sick day a sick day
I'll not make it all year
A day off is coming
And hopefully near
a sick day a sick day
I'll not make it all year
It's harder and harder
Maintaining my leer
A sick day a sick day
I'll not make it all year
Perhaps my behavior's
becoming quite queer
A sick day a sick day
I'll not make it all year
Perhaps in the morning
I'll call in and cheer
A SICK DAY A SICK DAY
I GOT A PAIN IN MY EAR
Alas...I can hear my principle sneer
With a resigning smirk easy to hear
NO SICK DAY NO SICK DAY
SORRY MY DEAR
NO SICK DAYS NO SICK DAYS
REMAINING THIS YEAR
(copyright 1993-2019)

The freezing wind rips raw through my skin.
The sand supports my heavy form
And I couldn’t wait to take the plunge.
My mind and body are at ease -
Because there’s nobody demanding an answer,
There’s no-one to answer back.
As comfortable as sleep.
The sea breaks like pages of poetry
And I drown peacefully between the sheets.

Walking in the light
The sun shines bright
Knowing in my heart that this is right
I still keep walking, walking, walking
Walking away from you
Walking away from me
Running away from us
Mixed emotions in my head
Wanna turn back but I still keep walking
Head up in the sky
No questions
No asking why
I'm flying high
I'm leaving with no good byes
Smiling, I made the right choice
But I still hear your voice running in my head
I am not taking back what I said
I have to keep walking, running, escaping...from you
You lied
I cried
I was hurting dead inside
Trying so hard to show my pride
It's hard with tears in your eyes
'Be strong' they say
'Don't be weak'
People cry not because they are weak
It's because they have been strong for too long
A new me starting over
I've landed on my 4-leaf clover
Best of luck you'll always be in my heart
But right now I need a new start to finish my end
Laugh more
Smile more
Saying Amen!
You were a great friend
Now it's time for my heart to mend...

The sky is crumbling into millions of paper dots
the wind blows in my face
so I duck into my favorite barber shop
and listen to Vivaldi and look in the mirror
reflecting the shopfront windows, Broadway
and 104th, and watch the dots blown by the wind
blow into the faces of the walkers outside
& here comes a thin old man swaddled in scarves,
he must be seventy-five, walking slowly,
and in his mind there is a young man dancing,
maybe seventeen years old, on a June evening --
he is that young man, I can tell, watching him walk

Black ship of night
sailing through the world
& the moon an orange slice
tangy to the teeth
of lovers who lie
under it,
sucking it.
Somewhere there are palm trees;
somewhere the sea
bluely gathers itself up
& lets itself fall again
into green;
somewhere the spangles
of light on the ocean
dazzle the eyes;
but here in the midnight city,
the black ship of night
has docked
for a long, dark stay,
& even the citrus moon
with its pockets of juice
cannot sweeten the dark.
Then the snow begins,
whirling over the Pole,
gathering force over Canada,
sprinkling the Great Lakes with sugar
which drowns in their deep black cups;
it is drawn to the spires of New York
& the flurries come
scampering at first,
lighthearted, crystalline, white,
but finally
sucked into the city
as into a black hole
in space.
The sky is suddenly pink-
pink as flesh: breasts,
babies' bottoms. Night is
day; day is whiter than the desert;
the city stops like a heart;
pigeons dip & veer
& come to rest
under the snow-hatted
watertanks.

The great North Wind rattles the trees
And shatters their twigs to splinters
The sparkling quilt of snow knee-deep
Paves the streets of winter
Hilly dams span the roads
With city traffic hindered
Trudging through the sterile cold
Of the dry, crackling winter
A birch tree bends upon a wheel
Is any body injured?
Soft as snow, as hard as steel
A picture, a killer, winter
The sun dies out by four o'clock
The night sky quickly enters
It creeps in with short, breathy steps
That  sombre, freezing winter

The angels promised to stay on guard.
And that they did.
Mom realized that I was her little miracle.
When I look back I realize she made a conscious
Decision to love, protect, and direct.
And that she did.
All through life she has been my greatest fan.
She's been my advisor.
She's been my close friend.
If I had a chance to choose a mother
I would choose her again and again.
There's so much I plan to do for her
as a token of my love and appreciation.
The little things I've done for her sometimes
cause her to say.. 'Thank God He kept you safe
within my womb.' I'm thankful too.
I'm thankful she's my mom.
One day in January I was born
held and nourished by a lovely soul.
I am because she is.

It is January 1997...
And so far...
It has been far from Heaven
The skies has been dark shades of blue and gray...
As I bend my knees to pray...
The weather has been cold and wet...
As I sat in my room and wept...
As I wish to witness to see a
Heaven sent angel...
I tried to remain stable...
I strolled through the peaceful cemetery...
Searching for sanctuary.
As I perched my depressed infested body...
Against an ice cold tombstone...
Covered with time and age...
I see my life on the darkest stage.
I only wish the unhappiness away...
I only long to write the next play...
Of life that will bring hope.
And colorful dreams in cinemascope...

This, then, the question
for those whom it may concern –
to find a celebration in oneself
that, as outer is, so inner;
that all truth rests within oneself –
for where else can it be found?
to love oneself – for oneself must be loveable,
or none other could be loved for true;
to know all happiness to be within;
to celebrate all this; the world a constant joy;
to find this celebration in oneself.

Can a man of old age find joy in his day of old?
Truly there is joy and light! If he search in the
Deepest core of his heart, there is a light, brighter
Than the sun that shine each day, whether it be
Sunny or gray. A light of truth that stands still in
His heart, as the candle without the fire, that
Desires, a spark. Waiting to explode as a huge
Volcano, or maybe a flick of flint. Truly joy is in
The light that is deep in his heart. If he search
After it, it will grow. If he refuse it, it will
Continue to drift away, as a bottle cast into the
Open sea, or a kite airborne with a broken string.
"Joy, light, all the same within the heart, hidden
Deep as the fossils of the days of old, search" I say,
As looking for a hidden treasure, while the time of
Life beats as the wave against the rocks on the sea
Shore. Before life is no more, find it quick, joy in the
Light of the heart.

Joy calls
She needs help she pleads
And I answer
Where and when
I do not bother
About why
I could be unethical
For my left hand
Must learn to give
Without my right
Hand knowing
And Hope comes next
Waiting at the Capitol
What a coincidence
She likes a hitch ride too
She needs help
Her heart is broken
And need immediate repair
I have this flashy car
With space enough for two
Or more
How can a man
Sane still
Refuse to give the best
Ride for lovely lonely women
Like them?
To err is human
But to make love is divine
And so I’ll go
What happens next
I will not tell you
Wait! My cell phone is ringing
It is Charity again calling!

As a fisher-boy I fared
To the black rock in the sea,
And, while false gifts I prepared.
Listen'd and sang merrily,
Down descended the decoy,
Soon a fish attack'd the bait;
One exultant shout of joy,--
And the fish was captured straight.
Ah! on shore, and to the wood
Past the cliffs, o'er stock and stone,
One foot's traces I pursued,
And the maiden was alone.
Lips were silent, eyes downcast
As a clasp-knife snaps the bait,
With her snare she seized me fast,
And the boy was captured straight.
Heav'n knows who's the happy swain
That she rambles with anew!
I must dare the sea again,
Spite of wind and weather too.
When the great and little fish
Wail and flounder in my net,
Straight returns my eager wish
In her arms to revel yet!

Oh how I enjoyed so very much
Fishing off a bridge
Or perhaps ‘long side the road
Or from up on a slight ridge
I remember many years ago
On the first day of the season
Going out before daylight
Getting my limit was the reason
Cold when I would paddle out
In a small and rented boat
And if I caught lots of fish
Oh, how I loved to gloat
But it was fun, I remember
As I tossed the long line out
And when I’d feel that tug
I’d wait to give a mighty shout
Until that little fish was on
And I’d nailed him on the spot
It was so much fun, my friend
Especially if he really fought
By the afternoon it was hot
So a cold drink I’d be wishing
And ready to go out again
For the ultimate joy of fishing!

My love for you,
How rich in depth?
For joy to cherish,
For peace to restore,
For presence to make known,
My love to engulf!
Fireworks on candles,
Roses embedded beneath.
For love so pure,
For joy to rejoice,
For peace to uphold,
For presence to overwhelm,
My love to sparkle!
Lilies on a river,
Chandelier on the sky.
For love so innocent,
For joy to compel,
For peace to touch,
For presence to gaze,
My love till death will reign!

IF the quick spirits in your eye
Now languish and anon must die;
If every sweet and every grace
Must fly from that forsaken face;
Then, Celia, let us reap our joys
Ere Time such goodly fruit destroys.
Or if that golden fleece must grow
For ever free from aged snow;
If those bright suns must know no shade,
Nor your fresh beauties ever fade;
Then fear not, Celia, to bestow
What, still being gather'd, still must grow.
Thus either Time his sickle brings
In vain, or else in vain his wings.

Surprised By Joy
Surprised by joy — impatient as the Wind
I turned to share the transport--Oh! with whom
But Thee, deep buried in the silent tomb,
That spot which no vicissitude can find?
Love, faithful love, recalled thee to my mind--
But how could I forget thee? Through what power,
Even for the least division of an hour,
Have I been so beguiled as to be blind
To my most grievous loss?--That thought's return
Was the worst pang that sorrow ever bore,
Save one, one only, when I stood forlorn,
Knowing my heart's best treasure was no more;
That neither present time, nor years unborn
Could to my sight that heavenly face restore.

Read this morning people write
the end of their story right from
the beginning of their life and all
through the way, look what people
are doing and how they treat
others to get a hint of the end
I fell into a reverie thinking of the
beginning of you and me, how you
noticed my problems and helped me
up when I fell, how you treated other
people and how your joie die vivre
increased with the years
I feel sure there is a beautiful ending
for us, I know that your lips are more
eager to smile and kiss than ever be-
fore, your arms are stronger, your tread
more steadfast, I can tell you are writing
an enchanting tale for us
I can’t get enough of the joy you bring
into my life, I jumped up and sent you
an SMS just to say I love you so much…

Your joy is my joy!
And, your laughter heals my soul.
The city of songs,
The smile on your face heals my heart;
The city of music!
Your laughter is like medicine to my heart;
Friendship should have rules and,
Everybody should obey them.
The future is with the influence of your life today,
So, you can change your life for the better is you want to;
Loon, loom!
True-love is with the wonder formula of life;
Your joy is my joy and,
Your laughter heals my soul.

THE father's name ye ne'er shall be told
Of my darling unborn life;
"Shame, shame," ye cry, "on the strumpet bold!"
Yet I'm an honest wife.
To whom I'm wedded, ye ne'er shall be told,
Yet he's both loving and fair;
He wears on his neck a chain of gold,
And a hat of straw doth he wear.
If scorn 'tis vain to seek to repel,
On me let the scorn be thrown.
I know him well, and he knows me well,
And to God, too, all is known.
Sir Parson and Sir Bailiff, again,
I pray you, leave me in peace!
My child it is, my child 'twill remain,
So let your questionings cease!

Mute nation, counting coffins,
Stands dazed by the pyre,
Waiting for the next victims,
To be put on pyre.
Country deaf and dumb,
Shrouded in fear, numb,
Wailing widows, children orphaned,
Flashed across the streets like lambs.
Up on a platform,
A wolf in whites, roaring,
Loudspeaker blowing,
Jai ho, jai ho, jai ho,
Nation salutes the resolute spirit.
Living race can’t wait five years,
Think and decide today.
From:
DR. Yogesh SHARMA

The right way to bestow, the glow way to Integrity,
If you wanna bloom, build a habit of Honesty,
Equality is the basic theme of Mankind,
Who is white who is black, it doesn't  Mind,
Justice! in each path of your Life,
It will transform your all acts Nice,
You not need to bow, don’t you Surrender,
Don’t be putative, Be the power of Thunder,
We the people of one God! Why there is difference!
Beat the Inequality, and place The Justice Preference!
Rich or Poor , Low or High, Don’t matter where You Are!
Will go the same grave same as martyred  Soldier after the War!

Millions of us stand on the roads,
not waiting for the transports to board,
just searching the peace that is lost,
opportunities missed and the destiny tainted.
rugs are cleaner and not with punctures,
in certain place, but looking at these juncture,
why are these people let to wear such attires,
Why aren't they cared and seen as equal?
When sugar, grains and spices are procured,
value their sweat to value these commodities,
Why do the rich want to buy these necessities,
at the price of these poor countries?
The beautiful blouse that we wear,
the elegant shirts that covered with the coats,
branded ties, meticulous belts and shoes,
believe me, might have been made,
with 25 cents per hour petty salary,
their children are alive half empty,
while our children are obese and naughty,
these people do not have to go to hell,
as they already live a life of hell,
where they drink untreated water,
frequent power cuts, clogged drains,
herbal remedies, god given diseases,
entertained by the music of mosquitoes.

It was
Just another day
Or so I thought
But madness
Had got me
I didn't even know
I was walking
Through the city
Minding my own
When I saw a man
Hurt someone
I should have known
I should have turned away
I should have gone another way
But my mind
Wouldn't let me
It was too far away
I'm chasing
I'm chasing
I'm gaining
But I'm losing
I'm fighting
But I'm not moving
I'm chasing
My dreams away
I catch him
I beat him
I take the blame for him
Then I pay
For what he done
Twenty years of pain
Justice never done

That Justice is a blind goddess
Is a thing to which we black are wise:
Her bandage hides two festering sores
That once perhaps were eyes.

It's a troubled World we live in the World of today
But love with peace and justice only decades away
In fifty years or less from now there won't be mistrust and hate
The war lords and the men of war will have passed their use by date.
Those who love peace and justice are beginning to unite
And for the men who worship war their loss of power in sight
Soon war jets will not fly the sky under the cloak of night
And those who promote harmony will be the men of might.
The yearn for peace is spreading getting stronger by the day
And those who are divisive will not have a part to play
In the World of the future the racist and the cruel
Will not have any power at all only the just will rule.
The children who are born today will surely live to see
A World of peace and harmony and of war and hatred free
For the yearn for peace is spreading and with each passing day it grow
And war will be unheard of in forty years or so.

TWO lawyers to their cause so well adhered,
A country justice quite confused appeared,
By them the facts were rendered so obscure
With which the truth remained he was not sure.
At length, completely tired, two straws he sought
Of diff'rent lengths, and to the parties brought.
These in his hand he held:--the plaintiff drew
(So fate decreed) the shortest of the two.
On this the other homeward took his way,
To boast how nicely he had gained the day.
THE bench complained: the magistrate replied
Don't blame I pray--'tis nothing new I've tried;
Courts often judge at hazard in the law,
Without deciding by the longest straw.

where's the freedom and justice?
trapped behind bars
watching lightning fast cars
where's the freedom and justice?
why keep hope
when happiness pops like soap
where's the freedom and justice?
cant breathe
cant leave
where's the freedom and justice?
hate misery
hate mystery
where's the freedom and justice?
you get raped
get interviewed on tape
where's the freedom and justice?
goes to court
but his bad luck is not the unlucky sort
where's the freedom and justice?
he get's away
i like an idea that's revenge is a way!
where's the freedom and justice?

Butter fly
Fly
To fly...
Crying
Flower's...!

The words i say today make the world fall away
The ring on your finger means your here to stay
The smile on your face lets me know you love me
When i wake up your the first thing i want to see
The look in your eyes make the world go away
The words we say makes my heart skip a beat
The bliss in this kiss is ever so sweet
With your hand in mine
Its not hard to find my very own piece of heaven
Were the angels fly happy and free
There i find you circled by these angles that sing
They sing a song
A melody of bliss in a kiss
Your kiss...

I want to kiss you at nightfall once again.
I want to kiss your lips tonight again
and taste the glory of your breath again.
I want to get drunk with the wine of your mouth
and to get lost in the unpublished ways of your soul.
I want to kiss your cheerful eyes at midnight once again
when the moon of the summer spills its light on the beach
and the soft rumor of the waves that die in the sand
whisper our names... smoothly.
I want to kiss your drowsy eyes under the light of first sunbeam
while the morning breeze wraps us slowly in a hug
in the solitude of our beach.
I want to fall asleep kissing you subtly another time
and wake up to half-day in the paradise of your embrace
and believe that I am still dreaming!

The kiss was two hearts in the warmth.
The kiss was two hearts enjoyed each other.
The kiss was fate in the love.
The kiss was love fire.
The kiss completed the life.
You kissed because of the love.
I kissed because of the longing.
The kiss was two speaking hearts mutually.
Kiss....please I'want to kissed.
The kiss planed the love in the love.
The kiss described all the colours of the rainbow in the heart.
The kiss maintained loyalty.
The kiss escaped from the sadness.
The kiss was the friend in solitude.
The kiss was to introduce us in the belief.
The kiss mixed all the feelings.
The kiss decorated the world.
Did you want to feel the kiss to be perfect?
The perfect kiss must with the love.
The perfect kiss must with the sincerity.
The perfect kiss must with the wish.
The perfect kiss must despise the belief on the love.
The perfect kiss must with the prayer.
The perfect kiss God bless you.

They were a soft kiss that he felt on his lips.
The kiss was gentle and made him fell warm.
The kiss made him fell safe and secure.
Just for the special seconds he had her in his arms.
Even then this angel who kiss him disappeared.
He knows that deep in his heart.
He had a kiss of an angel in his heart.

Brunette lady
With dark mysterious eyes,
You even mesmerize the moonlight
Falling softly upon you with love.
In a midnight garden, roses sleep
Like happy angels,
But you walk with a man
Kissing the nape of your neck,
Running his hand beneath your blouse
To touch your stomach in ecstasy.
The heavens are breathing romance,
Amorous gods and goddesses are disrobing,
The world is becoming intoxicated
With the wine of desire,
And you alone surpass them all
With your supple body of captivating dreams,
With the slightest movements of your breasts
Making every gazing man tremulous,
Setting off lovely eruptions.
It is impossible to possess you,
But I would repeatedly kiss the pillow
That has cradled and caressed your head
While you peacefully slept
And left the world anxiously waiting
To see your magnificent vision again.

As we journey
drift from drift-
-wood to drift-wood
She asks me:
“Where do waves come from? ”
“Who is sky? ”
“How is green?
“Why is water? ”
I do my best(I
a mere father)   to answer
but she is already
listening to a shell
tell of the vast sea
inside her.

To these I turn, in these I trust;
Brother Lead and Sister Steel.
To his blind power I make appeal;
I guard her beauty clean from rust.
He spins and burns and loves the air,
And splits a skull to win my praise;
But up the nobly marching days
She glitters naked, cold and fair.
Sweet Sister, grant your soldier this;
That in good fury he may feel
The body where he sets his heel
Quail from your downward darting kiss.

Kiss is
Happness...
kiss is
Enjoy...
Kiss is
Little bit
Of love...
Kiss is
Lovingely
Of
Sex...
Do kiss
Enjoy is...
Any day
Any time...
With your lip''s...!

It makes me want to laugh
sawing a girl in half
and missing the mark
a bomb going off
in the middle of the park
a bird flying in an ocean of blue
hitting a pane of glass
invisible to view
It makes me want to laugh
telling them its showers
when its actually gas
when lullabies are sung for babies
who are perched precariously
on the limbs of trees
It makes me want to laugh
Those who believe in some great reward
when their next-door neighbor has a body stored
under freshly cemented foundation
But in all of creation...
It makes me want to laugh
when we blow up points on a map
on one man's behalf.
leaving thousands dead
It makes me want to laugh.
But I'll think I'll cry now instead.

Laugh every day
It will add years to your life
And make your face shine

As the Sun withdrew his rays from the garden, and the moon threw cushioned beams upon the flowers, I sat under the trees pondering upon the phenomena of the atmosphere, looking through the branches at the strewn stars which glittered like chips of silver upon a blue carpet; and I could hear from a distance the agitated murmur of the rivulet singing its way briskly into the valley.
When the birds took shelter among the boughs, and the flowers folded their petals, and tremendous silence descended, I heard a rustle of feet though the grass. I took heed and saw a young couple approaching my arbor. The say under a tree where I could see them without being seen.
After he looked about in every direction, I heard the young man saying, "Sit by me, my beloved, and listen to my heart; smile, for your happiness is a symbol of our future; be merry, for the sparkling days rejoice with us.
"My soul is warning me of the doubt in your heart, for doubt in love is a sin. "Soon you will be the owner of this vast land, lighted by this beautiful moon; soon you will be the mistress of my palace, and all the servants and maids will obey your commands.
"Smile, my beloved, like the gold smiles from my father's coffers.
"My heart refuses to deny you its secret. Twelve months of comfort and travel await us; for a year we will spend my father's gold at the blue lakes of Switzerland, and viewing the edifices of Italy and Egypt, and resting under the Holy Cedars of Lebanon; you will meet the princesses who will envy you for your jewels and clothes.
"All these things I will do for you; will you be satisfied?"
In a little while I saw them walking and stepping on flowers as the rich step upon the hearts of the poor. As they disappeared from my sight, I commenced to make comparison between love and money, and to analyze their position in the heart.
Money! The source of insincere love; the spring of false light and fortune; the well of poisoned water; the desperation of old age!
I was still wandering in the vast desert of contemplation when a forlorn and specter-like couple passed by me and sat on the grass; a young man and a young woman who had left their farming shacks in the nearby fields for this cool and solitary place.
After a few moments of complete silence, I heard the following words uttered with sighs from weather-bitten lips, "Shed not tears, my beloved; love that opens our eyes and enslaves our hearts can give us the blessing of patience. Be consoled in our delay our delay, for we have taken an oath and entered Love's shrine; for our love will ever grow in adversity; for it is in Love's name that we are suffering the obstacles of poverty and the sharpness of misery and the emptiness of separation. I shall attack these hardships until I triumph and place in your hands a strength that will help over all things to complete the journey of life.
"Love - which is God - will consider our sighs and tears as incense burned at His altar and He will reward us with fortitude. Good-bye, my beloved; I must leave before the heartening moon vanishes."
A pure voice, combined of the consuming flame of love, and the hopeless bitterness of longing and the resolved sweetness of patience, said, "Good-bye, my beloved."
They separated, and the elegy to their union was smothered by the wails of my crying heart.
I looked upon slumbering Nature, and with deep reflection discovered the reality of a vast and infinite thing -- something no power could demand, influence acquire, nor riches purchase. Nor could it be effaced by the tears of time or deadened by sorrow; a thing which cannot be discovered by the blue lakes of Switzerland or the beautiful edifices of Italy.
It is something that gathers strength with patience, grows despite obstacles, warms in winter, flourishes in spring, casts a breeze in summer, and bears fruit in autumn -- I found Love.

The late afternoon sun slants down in the corner
where grandpa stands always to against his winter
simmering still, in his folded wrinkles, pure age's laughter
laughter, every time in a glimpse, we giggle together
till the eyes full of water
till the water stirring with more laughter
laughing in another corner, my dear grandma
secretly collects this again to her life drama

WORRY stalked along the road,
Trouble sneaking after;
Then Black Care, and Grief, and Goad
Enemies to Laughter.
But old Laughter with a shout
Rose up and attacked 'em;
Put the sorry pack to rout,
Walloped *em and whacked 'em.
Laughter frivols day and night ;
Sometimes he's a bubble,
But he hath a deal of might
In a bout with Trouble!

Some time it is like Everest,
Shining with shroud,
Some time it is darker than pith-blend,
Can you define, what is this life?
He shouted from far-
Distance traveled by a soul with body,
'Tween womb to tomb.....
He laughed and laughed-
Lost amid his laughter

Cheerful sound with big sound is called laugh
You energy is consumed almost half
Worries and tension disappear altogether
It has nothing to do with any whether
It is good medicine for incurable diseases
Person suffers from pain and continues to decease
Good laugh provides him easy means to live
All worries and tension remain to be relieved
Good laugh always pleases others
It doesn’t affect others or bother
It is considered as God’s gift
It helps to remove even old rift
Have you ever witnessed child’s smile?
You continue to enjoy for a while
Friendship may grow with smiling gesture
It may end up with bright future
You must try to live with laugh and learn
You may be miles away from concern
Laugh it out when you are in crisis
Stretch it out more and lay an emphasis
You are not to be driven out by any count
Let there be any difficulties or pressure mount
You may continue to live at ease
Smile may help worries to decrease
You may roar high in laughter
Your heart beats may run even faster
All vanes and brain may have fresh supply
Body need may meet the level with good reply
It is equally important for good health
Nothing can compensate even more wealth
So laugh even when it is not needed
Medical advice may always be heeded
Worry and tension burn body from within
Chances for recovery are then very thin
One must live by what he is supposed
Health must prevail and rest all is disposed
Good smile may pave the way for adjustment
Life may become easy with smiling comments
Any excuses offered without remorse may not have effect
Sorry with broad smile may have desirable affect
You can find good partner if good smile is offered
Smile may reliever you from burden even if you have suffered
You can win away foe with mild gesture
It may then decide good and durable future
Love to live with smile and not with tension
Never open up with caution and mention
It is momentary thing and may pass off
Be little lenient with views and very soft
You may live little longer than expected
You may enhance the position and remain respected
It is advisable to remain always in joyous mood
You may need nothing not even rich food
Love to live with smile and advent
Not to feel bad and offer any comment
Leave behind trail of long laughter
You may feel happy and even lighter

The laughter in your heart
Would melt a melting pot
Would rise a sunken ship
Save a lady in distress
Lead the lost to find their way
Cause pain to go away
Your laughter
Is my laughter
Your heart, my heart
Two risen ships
Of ladies of lost
From laughter of pain
Let us unite these good things

Your laughter blew into my life
With swift surprise.
It spun happily around me,
Whirling with dizzy speed.
Its breeze licked and kissed
At my ears.
Entering quickly,
It found places in my mind,
My heart, my soul.
It raced in,
Filling me with a whirlwind
Of joyous anticipation.

Tell me not, in mournful numbers,
Life is but an empty dream!
For the soul is dead that slumbers,
And things are not what they seem.
Life is real! Life is earnest!
And the grave is not its goal;
Dust thou art, to dust returnest,
Was not spoken of the soul.
Not enjoyment, and not sorrow,
Is our destined end or way;
But to act, that each to-morrow
Find us farther than to-day.
Art is long, and Time is fleeting,
And our hearts, though stout and brave,
Still, like muffled drums, are beating
Funeral marches to the grave.
In the world’s broad field of battle,
In the bivouac of Life,
Be not like dumb, driven cattle!
Be a hero in the strife!
Trust no Future, howe’er pleasant!
Let the dead Past bury its dead!
Act,— act in the living Present!
Heart within, and God o’erhead!
Lives of great men all remind us
We can make our lives sublime,
And, departing, leave behind us
Footprints on the sands of time;
Footprints, that perhaps another,
Sailing o’er life’s solemn main,
A forlorn and shipwrecked brother,
Seeing, shall take heart again.
Let us, then, be up and doing,
With a heart for any fate;
Still achieving, still pursuing,
Learn to labor and to wait.

If dead, we cease to be ; if total gloom
Swallow up life's brief flash for aye, we fare
As summer-gusts, of sudden birth and doom,
Whose sound and motion not alone declare,
But are their whole of being ! If the breath
Be Life itself, and not its task and tent,
If even a soul like Milton's can know death ;
O Man ! thou vessel purposeless, unmeant,
Yet drone-hive strange of phantom purposes !
Surplus of Nature's dread activity,
Which, as she gazed on some nigh-finished vase,
Retreating slow, with meditative pause,
She formed with restless hands unconsciously.
Blank accident ! nothing's anomaly !
If rootless thus, thus substanceless thy state,
Go, weigh thy dreams, and be thy hopes, thy fears,
The counter-weights !--Thy laughter and thy tears
Mean but themselves, each fittest to create
And to repay the other ! Why rejoices
Thy heart with hollow joy for hollow good ?
Why cowl thy face beneath the mourner's hood ?
Why waste thy sighs, and thy lamenting voices,
Image of Image, Ghost of Ghostly Elf,
That such a thing as thou feel'st warm or cold ?
Yet what and whence thy gain, if thou withhold
These costless shadows of thy shadowy self ?
Be sad ! be glad ! be neither ! seek, or shun !
Thou hast no reason why ! Thou canst have none ;
Thy being's being is contradiction.

Escape me?
Never---
Beloved!
While I am I, and you are you,
So long as the world contains us both,
Me the loving and you the loth
While the one eludes, must the other pursue.
My life is a fault at last, I fear:
It seems too much like a fate, indeed!
Though I do my best I shall scarce succeed.
But what if I fail of my purpose here?
It is but to keep the nerves at strain,
To dry one's eyes and laugh at a fall,
And, baffled, get up and begin again,---
So the chace takes up one's life ' that's all.
While, look but once from your farthest bound
At me so deep in the dust and dark,
No sooner the old hope goes to ground
Than a new one, straight to the self-same mark,
I shape me---
Ever
Removed!

Life is stupid, life is dumb
Life is cruel, and devious to some
See the steeple, hear the bell
I speak of religion, short of which I've fell
Feel the beggars sorrow and his pain
See the crippled limping with his cane
Hear the babies, crying in the street
Feel saddened when you hear about the children dying in the heat
Think about the sadness within our heart
It seems almost fictional, almost an art
With all these problems, whose to blame
Carelessness and greediness, have brought upon us shame
Life is stupid, life is dumb
Life is cruel, and devious to some.

As late I journey'd o'er the extensive plain
Where native Otter sports his scanty stream,
Musing in torpid woe a Sister's pain,
The glorious prospect woke me from the dream.
At every step it widen'd to my sight -
Wood, Meadow, verdant Hill, and dreary Steep,
Following in quick succession of delight, -
Till all - at once - did my eye ravish'd sweep!
May this (I cried) my course through Life portray!
New scenes of Wisdom may each step display,
And Knowledge open as my days advance!
Till what time Death shall pour the undarken'd ray,
My eye shall dart thro' infinite expanse,
And thought suspended lie in Rapture's blissful trance.

In the tranquility of hope
And divinity of love that
Binds us to feel the inner self
Churns the butterfly moments
Though we met umpteen of times
We drown to search, what we lost
Found the new us in every sight
Mystical the experiences, at different levels
Felt the warmth of your companionship
In every breath....
Though let down by the one
Whom you trust...
Fall in love, long for the real one
Love is life, life is love...

RARe 2nd Stanza - In Life And For Life
March 15, 2020
Desire
Pleasure
To be
To have
In life and for life, so
Try your best to acquire.

Light flows our war of mocking words, and yet,
Behold, with tears mine eyes are wet!
I feel a nameless sadness o'er me roll.
Yes, yes, we know that we can jest,
We know, we know that we can smile!
But there's a something in this breast,
To which thy light words bring no rest,
And thy gay smiles no anodyne.
Give me thy hand, and hush awhile,
And turn those limpid eyes on mine,
And let me read there, love! thy inmost soul.
Alas! is even love too weak
To unlock the heart, and let it speak?
Are even lovers powerless to reveal
To one another what indeed they feel?
I knew the mass of men conceal'd
Their thoughts, for fear that if reveal'd
They would by other men be met
With blank indifference, or with blame reproved;
I knew they lived and moved
Trick'd in disguises, alien to the rest
Of men, and alien to themselves--and yet
The same heart beats in every human breast!
But we, my love!--doth a like spell benumb
Our hearts, our voices?--must we too be dumb?
Ah! well for us, if even we,
Even for a moment, can get free
Our heart, and have our lips unchain'd;
For that which seals them hath been deep-ordain'd!
Fate, which foresaw
How frivolous a baby man would be--
By what distractions he would be possess'd,
How he would pour himself in every strife,
And well-nigh change his own identity--
That it might keep from his capricious play
His genuine self, and force him to obey
Even in his own despite his being's law,
Bade through the deep recesses of our breast
The unregarded river of our life
Pursue with indiscernible flow its way;
And that we should not see
The buried stream, and seem to be
Eddying at large in blind uncertainty,
Though driving on with it eternally.
But often, in the world's most crowded streets,
But often, in the din of strife,
There rises an unspeakable desire
After the knowledge of our buried life;
A thirst to spend our fire and restless force
In tracking out our true, original course;
A longing to inquire
Into the mystery of this heart which beats
So wild, so deep in us--to know
Whence our lives come and where they go.
And many a man in his own breast then delves,
But deep enough, alas! none ever mines.
And we have been on many thousand lines,
And we have shown, on each, spirit and power;
But hardly have we, for one little hour,
Been on our own line, have we been ourselves--
Hardly had skill to utter one of all
The nameless feelings that course through our breast,
But they course on for ever unexpress'd.
And long we try in vain to speak and act
Our hidden self, and what we say and do
Is eloquent, is well--but 't#is not true!
And then we will no more be rack'd
With inward striving, and demand
Of all the thousand nothings of the hour
Their stupefying power;
Ah yes, and they benumb us at our call!
Yet still, from time to time, vague and forlorn,
From the soul's subterranean depth upborne
As from an infinitely distant land,
Come airs, and floating echoes, and convey
A melancholy into all our day.
Only--but this is rare--
When a belov{'e}d hand is laid in ours,
When, jaded with the rush and glare
Of the interminable hours,
Our eyes can in another's eyes read clear,
When our world-deafen'd ear
Is by the tones of a loved voice caress'd--
A bolt is shot back somewhere in our breast,
And a lost pulse of feeling stirs again.
The eye sinks inward, and the heart lies plain,
And what we mean, we say, and what we would, we know.
A man becomes aware of his life's flow,
And hears its winding murmur; and he sees
The meadows where it glides, the sun, the breeze.
And there arrives a lull in the hot race
Wherein he doth for ever chase
That flying and elusive shadow, rest.
An air of coolness plays upon his face,
And an unwonted calm pervades his breast.
And then he thinks he knows
The hills where his life rose,
And the sea where it goes.

When sinks my heart in hopeless gloom,
And life can shew no joy for me;
And I behold a yawning tomb,
Where bowers and palaces should be;
In vain you talk of morbid dreams;
In vain you gaily smiling say,
That what to me so dreary seems,
The healthy mind deems bright and gay.
I too have smiled, and thought like you,
But madly smiled, and falsely deemed:
Truth led me to the present view,
I'm waking now -- 'twas then I dreamed.
I lately saw a sunset sky,
And stood enraptured to behold
Its varied hues of glorious dye:
First, fleecy clouds of shining gold;
These blushing took a rosy hue;
Beneath them shone a flood of green;
Nor less divine, the glorious blue
That smiled above them and between.
I cannot name each lovely shade;
I cannot say how bright they shone;
But one by one, I saw them fade;
And what remained whey they were gone?
Dull clouds remained, of sombre hue,
And when their borrowed charm was o'er,
The azure sky had faded too,
That smiled so softly bright before.
So, gilded by the glow of youth,
Our varied life looks fair and gay;
And so remains the naked truth,
When that false light is past away.
Why blame ye, then, my keener sight,
That clearly sees a world of woes,
Through all the haze of golden light,
That flattering Falsehood round it throws?
When the young mother smiles above
The first-born darling of her heart,
Her bosom glows with earnest love,
While tears of silent transport start.
Fond dreamer! little does she know
The anxious toil, the suffering,
The blasted hopes, the burning woe,
The object of her joy will bring.
Her blinded eyes behold not now
What, soon or late, must be his doom;
The anguish that will cloud his brow,
The bed of death, the dreary tomb.
As little know the youthful pair,
In mutual love supremely blest,
What weariness, and cold despair,
Ere long, will seize the aching breast.
And, even, should Love and Faith remain,
(The greatest blessings life can show,)
Amid adversity and pain,
To shine, throughout with cheering glow;
They do not see how cruel Death
Comes on, their loving hearts to part:
One feels not now the gasping breath,
The rending of the earth-bound heart, --
The soul's and body's agony,
Ere she may sink to her repose,
The sad survivor cannot see
The grave above his darling close;
Nor how, despairing and alone,
He then must wear his life away;
And linger, feebly toiling on,
And fainting, sink into decay.
*   *   *
Oh, Youth may listen patiently,
While sad Experience tells her tale;
But Doubt sits smiling in his eye,
For ardent Hope will still prevail!
He hears how feeble Pleasure dies,
By guilt destroyed, and pain and woe;
He turns to Hope -­ and she replies,
'Believe it not -­ it is not so!'
'Oh, heed her not!' Experience says,
'For thus she whispered once to me;
She told me, in my youthful days,
How glorious manhood's prime would be.
When, in the time of early Spring,
Too chill the winds that o'er me pass'd,
She said, each coming day would bring
A fairer heaven, a gentler blast.
And when the sun too seldom beamed,
The sky, o'ercast, too darkly frowned,
The soaking rain too constant streamed,
And mists too dreary gathered round;
'She told me Summer's glorious ray
Would chase those vapours all away,
And scatter glories round,
With sweetest music fill the trees,
Load with rich scent the gentle breeze,
And strew with flowers the ground.
But when, beneath that scorching ray,
I languished, weary, through the day,
While birds refused to sing,
Verdure decayed from field and tree,
And panting Nature mourned with me
The freshness of the Spring.
"Wait but a little while," she said,
"Till Summer's burning days are fled;
And Autumn shall restore,
With golden riches of her own,
And Summer's glories mellowed down,
The freshness you deplore."
And long I waited, but in vain:
That freshness never came again,
Though Summer passed away,
Though Autumn's mists hung cold and chill,
And drooping nature languished still,
And sank into decay.
Till wintry blasts foreboding blew
Through leafless trees -­ and then I knew
That Hope was all a dream.
But thus, fond youth, she cheated me;
And she will prove as false to thee,
Though sweet her words may seem.'
Stern prophet! Cease thy bodings dire -­
Thou canst not quench the ardent fire
That warms the breast of youth.
Oh, let it cheer him while it may,
And gently, gently die away --
Chilled by the damps of truth!
Tell him, that earth is not our rest;
Its joys are empty -- frail at best;
And point beyond the sky.
But gleams of light may reach us here;
And hope the roughest path can cheer:
Then do not bid it fly!
Though hope may promise joys, that still
Unkindly time will ne'er fulfil;
Or, if they come at all,
We never find them unalloyed, -­
Hurtful perchance, or soon destroyed,
They vanish or they pall;
Yet hope itself a brightness throws
O'er all our labours and our woes;
While dark foreboding Care
A thousand ills will oft portend,
That Providence may ne'er intend
The trembling heart to bear.
Or if they come, it oft appears,
Our woes are lighter than our fears,
And far more bravely borne.
Then let us not enhance our doom;
But e'en in midnight's blackest gloom
Expect the rising morn.
Because the road is rough and long,
Shall we despise the skylark's song,
That cheers the wanderer's way?
Or trample down, with reckless feet,
The smiling flowerets, bright and sweet
Because they soon decay?
Pass pleasant scenes unnoticed by,
Because the next is bleak and drear;
Or not enjoy a smiling sky,
Because a tempest may be near?
No! while we journey on our way,
We'll notice every lovely thing;
And ever, as they pass away,
To memory and hope we'll cling.
And though that awful river flows
Before us, when the journey's past,
Perchance of all the pilgrim's woes
Most dreadful -- shrink not -­ 'tis the last!
Though icy cold, and dark, and deep;
Beyond it smiles that blessed shore,
Where none shall suffer, none shall weep,
And bliss shall reign for evermore!
Acton

I'm out in the field
Roaming the vast prairie
Waiting for somebody
To come and visit me
Occasionally I'll see
A car or truck around
I'm stand here just waiting
In my deserted prairie ground
I'm quite a handsome fellow
Just look here for yourself
Sometimes I feel my owner
Has put me on the shelf
I'm good for many things
I could win as a show horse
If someone only entered me
Into a show of course
But pretty soon I know
The kids will come on by
Visit me and ride me
And on my back they'll fly!

IF God compel thee to this destiny,
To die alone, with none beside thy bed
To ruffle round with sobs thy last word said
And mark with tears the pulses ebb from thee,--
Pray then alone, ' O Christ, come tenderly !
By thy forsaken Sonship in the red
Drear wine-press,--by the wilderness out-spread,--
And the lone garden where thine agony
Fell bloody from thy brow,--by all of those
Permitted desolations, comfort mine !
No earthly friend being near me, interpose
No deathly angel 'twixt my face aud thine,
But stoop Thyself to gather my life's rose,
And smile away my mortal to Divine ! '

I wandered lonely as a cloud
That floats on high o'er vales and hills,
When all at once I saw a crowd,
A host, of golden daffodils;
Beside the lake, beneath the trees,
Fluttering and dancing in the breeze.
Continuous as the stars that shine
And twinkle on the milky way,
They stretched in never-ending line
Along the margin of a bay:
Ten thousand saw I at a glance,
Tossing their heads in sprightly dance.
The waves beside them danced; but they
Out-did the sparkling waves in glee:
A poet could not but be gay,
In such a jocund company:
I gazed- and gazed- but little thought
What wealth the show to me had brought:
For oft, when on my couch I lie
In vacant or in pensive mood,
They flash upon that inward eye
Which is the bliss of solitude;
And then my heart with pleasure fills,
And dances with the daffodils.

Lonely for Paris in spring
All is so faraway to reach,
A heart for joy could sing
What memories should teach;
Eyes are wide in clearing blue
All is such a joy to glide,
It's always up to me and you
What gets soft or amplified.
Be here and become strong
All has its wandering ways,
Have an opportunity get along
Make the best of all the days;
Ripe your feelings and touch
Nothing else is more of hope,
We have everything inasmuch
As we work things out and cope.
The days begin in nothingness
With the cold pleasure at first,
Then there might be a new fresh
A moment of thought we thirst;
A day is asleep for awhile
And then there's some awaken,
Hard in a lost hour to defile
When a mind's occupied or taken.

Lonely man you need to
Discover this world which is
Beautiful
Be a part of this world
You are setting your foot on the ground
There are many opportunities out there for you
Do you know what you are looking for?
Lonely man
Grab a tissue paper out of your pocket
And wipe the tears that are falling from your eyes
It must be the cold weather that is doing it to your eyes
You don't know yourself at all
You need to learn to be open to yourself
And to find out who you realy are
This will be a mystery for you to learn about yourself
Lonely man
The night soon begun
And you went to bed right away after I had given you supper
Lonely man
Don't you know it is Christmas?
Lonely man
I don't judge you
Lonely man
I know that you don't judge me
Lonely man
See you tomorrow
Have a good night
Lonely man
Do you believe in God?
Lonely man
Are you a chrisstian?

Isolation accompanies me,
whispering melodically in my ear..
Confusion is mocking me,
with its mirthless smile, it stands near..
The silence that surrounds me..
Speaks of many fears..
and savage loneliness, a glorious creature..
is gnawing me with her teeth.
These beasts that form my world,
Are my companions who laugh my way..
promising external continuation,
of all this pain i breathe.
Nothing will change, they tell me..
There is no course to improve..!
Truth, hiding in the shadows,
fiction, standing bright before my eyes..
Searching, pushing,
Nothing is as it seems..
We clamour and we fight..
Making fists at the brightness..
wondering what it is..
who it is.. what it means..
If truth should consume us,
If God can live with us..
then why are we soo empty..? ?
Always, with the conundrum of our desires..? ?
Our life..our lackings..? ?
There is darkness, they say..
And there is light..
But sometimes.. fuzzy and faint illuminations.. are all the shades i see..
My life's play is written..
And there are no foot lights..
only actors and actresses..
who are not willing to share the performance..
So i sit alone..
On a dark stage..
without U..! !

Butterflies that flew
in 1932
still held in that summer
by the equisitely neat caligraphy
& cruel glinting pin.
I wipe the dust
from the glass
& they gleam
as if they still dream
of being
alive.
i smash the glass
clutch them in my hand & climb
from attic to roof
& slowly
drawing myself up to
my full height
release them
back into time
smile as they flutter
in the summer breeze
of then & now
their dead eyes
taking it
clouds...trees...skies
their one last lonely flight
back into nothingness

In the cold I will rise, I will bathe
In waters of ice; myself
Will shiver, and shrive myself,
Alone in the dawn, and anoint
Forehead and feet and hands;
I will shutter the windows from light,
I will place in their sockets the four
Tall candles and set them aflame
In the grey of the dawn; and myself
Will lay myself straight in my bed,
And draw the sheet under my chin.

Unhappy about some far off things
That are not my affair, wandering
Along the coast and up the lean ridges,
I saw in the evening
The stars go over the lonely ocean,
And a black-maned wild boar
Plowing with his snout on Mal Paso Mountain.
The old monster snuffled, "Here are sweet roots,
Fat grubs, slick beetles and sprouted acorns.
The best nation in Europe has fallen,
And that is Finland,
But the stars go over the lonely ocean,"
The old black-bristled boar,
Tearing the sod on Mal Paso Mountain.
"The world's in a bad way, my man,
And bound to be worse before it mends;
Better lie up in the mountain here
Four or five centuries,
While the stars go over the lonely ocean,"
Said the old father of wild pigs,
Plowing the fallow on Mal Paso Mountain.
"Keep clear of the dupes that talk democracy
And the dogs that talk revolution,
Drunk with talk, liars and believers.
I believe in my tusks.
Long live freedom and damn the ideologies,"
Said the gamey black-maned boar
Tusking the turf on Mal Paso Mountain.
Submitted by Holt

There was nothing violent
about the death of your thoughts
from my memories.
We moved so very imperceptibly
to the far ends of a bed, slowly,
we once made love on.
Enamel etches on my skin your passion
Welts, spots of blood sprouting
reminding you of a crime, glistening
I espy right over your heart tattooed
with some blade, scratched
Disjointed nicks joined to form a name
The faceless unknown
That you mouth in passion, pain.
I sense the person
in every moment shared with you.
In the pauses between words too
The name flitting, an alphabet fallen off a word
seeking, fitting into sentences in fleeting
Lonely, to find its niche wishing
Love is an agony revisited, uninvited
when even space and time conspired
maintaining in our hearts distant expanses
Is there anything violent
about the death of thoughts of us,
except the wounds that we passed along...

Words fall short
To express a sense of loss.
It can only be felt
In the emptiness it left.
In the longing of your heart,
In some chamber of your soul,
For a dear one gone
In a flash, we are forever apart.
In the silent tears
That flow down your cheeks,
Soaking the pillow case
As you lie curled up in bed.
In the half smile
That never reaches your eyes,
The void that fills you
And makes you wonder why are you alive.
With time the ache becomes dull,
And from time to time
You find yourself awake
Tossing, turning going down
The memory lane,
Some sweet some full of pain.
You are never whole,
As long as there is a longing
In your soul.
In time you realise
You have to let go,
And make peace
And deal with grief.
Finally when it does,
You grow wise
Compassionate and loving,
And gain a new insight
Into life that is a mystery.

When I compare
What I have lost with what I have gained,
What I have missed with what attained,
Little room do I find for pride.
I am aware
How many days have been idly spent;
How like an arrow the good intent
Has fallen short or been turned aside.
But who shall dare
To measure loss and gain in this wise?
Defeat may be victory in disguise;
The lowest ebb is the turn of the tide.

When the faith is lost in the heaven
Then the peace will become an enemy in our soul
When the love is lost in our heart
Then the nature of behavior become full of sins
When the knowledge is lost in the school
Then the nation's future will suffer from wisdom
When the kindness is lost in the nation
Then the people of the nation become immoral
When a home is lost its brightness of life
Then the family will suffer from mantle agony
When the nature is lost its beauty
Then the pleasant green pastures become like a dessert land
When all those prayers are kept away from God
Then the tears of life can not be cured
Ravi Sathasivam / Sri Lanka
Copyright @2009 Ravi Sathasivam

In the might Orange River
just past Augrabies
you lost your magic ring
and there princess
you cried
while the water around you
circled out wider.
That knotted Russian wedding band
which should have brought you luck
that was for generations in your family
was grabbed
by the fingers of the red water
and was washed away
to maybe decorate the finger
of a dark goddess
and in your soul
you felt the darkness coming near
as if something crept
from the water right into your soul
and the shadows of willow trees
growing on the banks
reached out ominous
as if they were trying to protect you
against something.
Still the sun was bright in the sky,
the blue stretched over the heaven
and your reflection which was thrown
on the surface of the water
was matchless
and I saw tears in your dark green eyes.

Indeed we live in troubled times
Our days filled with angst n’ worry
Good folk committing petty crimes
Blindly going nowhere in a hurry
Some complain of “Memory loss”
Whilst caught up in hurtful foment
Their days lived in utter chaos
Forsaken; “Living in the moment”
When events speed up slow down!
Deliberate; then proceed
‘Lest you quickly sink n’ drown
For it’s your loss when lifetime tallied
Life is best when you’re the boss,
And there’s no need for memory loss
(ROTMS)

The pain of loss is just too much
you will no longer be here to touch
gone forever is so true
but I will always remember you
the thought is too hard to bare
I shall not cry, I do not dare
the thought of you is still here
but I will shed not a tear
for I know where you will be
further than the eye can see
with our Father in the Heaven above
I will see you soon my love.

See that fallen Princess! her splendor is gone--
The pomp of her morning is over;
Her day-star of pleasure refuses to dawn,
She wanders a nocturnal rover.
Alas! she resembles Jerusalem's fall,
The fate of that wonderful city;
When grief with astonishment rung from the wall,
Instead of the heart-cheering ditty.
When music was silent, no more to be rung,
When Sion wept over her daughter;
On grief's drooping willows their harps they were hung,
When pendent o'er Babylon's water.
She looks like some Star that has fall'n from her sphere,
No more by her cluster surrounded;
Her comrades of pleasure refuse her to cheer,
And leave her dethron'd and confounded.
She looks like some Queen who has boasted in vain,
Whose diamond refuses to glitter;
Deserted by those who once bow'd in her train,
Whose flight to her soul must be bitter.
She looks like the twilight, her sun sunk away,
He sets; but to rise again never!
Like the Eve, with a blush bids farewell to the day,
And darkness conceals her forever.

Fading laughter
From memories past
Hidden tears
Soon are lost
Powerless to
The will of you
Forced unto
All that grew
Aggrivating
I say, I dare
But whoever said
Life was fair?
A sigh of grievance
Is all I can do
How can I say
My mourning's through?

I'm a little boy isolated from everyone,
And my family and friends need to see
That I'm missing from the neighborhood scene.
Perhaps they have forgotten all about me.
If I remain lost and here alone,
Eventually I will become weak and frail,
But my faithful collie dog has followed me,
A welcomed companion on this dusty trail.
Yet - he can't lead me home, for he
Was taught to remain with his master,
So I'm constantly rubbing my teary eyes,
And just as lost now as ever and facing disaster.
What will become of me?

He who hath glory lost, nor hath
Found any soul to fellow his,
Among his foes in scorn and wrath
Holding to ancient nobleness,
That high unconsortable one ---
His love is his companion.

A Mermaid’s not a human thing,
An’ courtin’ such is folly;
Of flesh an’ blood I’d rather sing,
What ain’t so melancholy.
Oh, Berta! Loo! Jaunita! Sue!
Here’s good luck to me and you—
Sing rally! ri-a-rally!
The seas is deep; the seas is wide;
But this I’ll prove whate’er betide,
I’m bully in the alley!
I’m bull-ee in our al-lee!
The Hooghli gal’er face is brown;
The Hilo gal is lazy;
The gal that lives by ’Obart town
She’d drive a dead man crazy;
Come, wet your lip, and let it slip!
The Gretna Green’s a tidy ship—
Sing rally!
The seas is deep; the seas is blue;
But ’ere’s good ’ealth to me and you,
Ho, rally!
The Lord may drop us off our pins
To feed ’is bloomin’ fishes;
But Lord forgive us for our sins—
Our sins is most delicious!
Come, drink it up and fill yer cup!
The world it owes us bite and sup,
And Mimi, Ju-Ju, Sally;
The seas is long; the winds is strong;
The best of men they will go wrong—
Hi, rally! ri-a-rally!
The Bowery gal she knows ’er know;
The Frisco gal is silly;
The Hayti gal ain’t white as snow—
They’re whiter down in Chili.
Now what’s the use to shun the booze?
They’ll flop your bones among the ooze
Sou’-west-by-Sou’ the galley.
The seas is green; the seas is cold;
The best of men they must grow old—
Sing rally! ri-a-rally!
All round the world where’er I roam,
This lesson I am learnin’:
If you’ve got sense you’ll stop at home
And save the bit yer earnin’.
So hang the odds! It’s little odds,
When every ’eathen ’as ’is gods,
And neither two will tally:
When black and white drink, wimmin, fight—
In these three things they’re all alright—
Sing rally! ri-a-rally!
When double bunks, Fo’castle end,
Is all the kind that’s carried,
Our manners they will likely mend—
Most likely we’ll be married.
But till sich time as that be done,
We’ll take our fun as we’ve begun—
Sing rally!
The flesh is weak; the world is wide;
The dead man ’e goes overside—
Sing rally! rally!
We’re given and lost to the girls that wait
From Trinity to Whitsund’y,
From Sunda Strait to the Golden Gate
An’ back to the Bay o’ Fundy;
Oh, it’s Mabel, Loo, an’ it’s Nancy-Poo,
An’ ’ere’s good luck, an’ I love you—
Sing rally!
Oh, it’s cents an’ dollars an’ somebody hollers—
The sun comes up an’ the mornin’ follers—
Sing rally!
We’re given an’ lost to the octoroon,
The Portugee cruiser painty,
The Chinkie gal with ’er eyes ’arf-moon,
An’ the Japanee darlin’ dainty.
Oh, it’s Tokio-town when the sun goes down,
It’s ’arf-a-pint and it’s ’arf-a-crown—
Sing rally!
’Er spars may lift an’ ’er keel can shift,
When a man is done ’e ’s got to drift—
Sing rally! Ho, rally!
The Hooghli gal ’er face is brown,
The Hilo gal’s a daisy,
The gal that lives by ’Obart town
She’d drive a dead man crazy.
So, pretty an’ plain, it’s Sarah Jane
’Uggin’ an’ kissin’ an’ ‘Come again!’
Sing rally! ri-a-rally!
The seas is deep; the seas is wide;
But this I’ll prove what else betide,
I’m bully in the alley,
Ho! Bullee in the Al-lee!

Up from the poor man's cottage--
Forth from the mansion door;
Sweeping across the waters,
And echoing 'long the shore;
Caught by the morning breezes--
Borne on the evening gale;
Cometh a voice of mourning,
A sad and solemn wail.
Lost on the Lady Elgin!
Sleeping to wake no more!
Number'd in that three hundred,
Who fail'd to reach the shore!
Oh! 'tis the cry of children,
Weeping for parents gone;
Children who slept at evening,
But orphans woke at dawn.
Sisters for brothers weeping,
Husbands for missing wives--
Such are the ties dis-sever'd
With those three hundred live.
Staunch was the noble steamer--
Precious the freight she bore;
Gaily she loosed her cables,
A few short hours before.
Grandly she swept out harbor,
Joyfully ran her bell;
Little thought we, 'ere morning,
'Twould toll so sad a knell.

When the creation was new and all the stars shone in their first
splendor, the gods held their assembly in the sky and sang
`Oh, the picture of perfection! the joy unalloyed!'
But one cried of a sudden
---`It seems that somewhere there is a break in the chain of light
and one of the stars has been lost.'
The golden string of their harp snapped,
their song stopped, and they cried in dismay
---`Yes, that lost star was the best,
she was the glory of all heavens!'
From that day the search is unceasing for her,
and the cry goes on from one to the other
that in her the world has lost its one joy!
Only in the deepest silence of night the stars smile
and whisper among themselves
---`Vain is this seeking! unbroken perfection is over all!'

O, for that warning voice, which he, who saw
The Apocalypse, heard cry in Heaven aloud,
Then when the Dragon, put to second rout,
Came furious down to be revenged on men,
Woe to the inhabitants on earth! that now,
While time was, our first parents had been warned
The coming of their secret foe, and 'scaped,
Haply so 'scaped his mortal snare:  For now
Satan, now first inflamed with rage, came down,
The tempter ere the accuser of mankind,
To wreak on innocent frail Man his loss
Of that first battle, and his flight to Hell:
Yet, not rejoicing in his speed, though bold
Far off and fearless, nor with cause to boast,
Begins his dire attempt; which nigh the birth
Now rolling boils in his tumultuous breast,
And like a devilish engine back recoils
Upon himself; horrour and doubt distract
His troubled thoughts, and from the bottom stir
The Hell within him; for within him Hell
He brings, and round about him, nor from Hell
One step, no more than from himself, can fly
By change of place:  Now conscience wakes despair,
That slumbered; wakes the bitter memory
Of what he was, what is, and what must be
Worse; of worse deeds worse sufferings must ensue.
Sometimes towards Eden, which now in his view
Lay pleasant, his grieved look he fixes sad;
Sometimes towards Heaven, and the full-blazing sun,
Which now sat high in his meridian tower:
Then, much revolving, thus in sighs began.
O thou, that, with surpassing glory crowned,
Lookest from thy sole dominion like the God
Of this new world; at whose sight all the stars
Hide their diminished heads; to thee I call,
But with no friendly voice, and add thy name,
Of Sun! to tell thee how I hate thy beams,
That bring to my remembrance from what state
I fell, how glorious once above thy sphere;
Till pride and worse ambition threw me down
Warring in Heaven against Heaven's matchless King:
Ah, wherefore! he deserved no such return
From me, whom he created what I was
In that bright eminence, and with his good
Upbraided none; nor was his service hard.
What could be less than to afford him praise,
The easiest recompence, and pay him thanks,
How due! yet all his good proved ill in me,
And wrought but malice; lifted up so high
I sdeined subjection, and thought one step higher
Would set me highest, and in a moment quit
The debt immense of endless gratitude,
So burdensome still paying, still to owe,
Forgetful what from him I still received,
And understood not that a grateful mind
By owing owes not, but still pays, at once
Indebted and discharged; what burden then
O, had his powerful destiny ordained
Me some inferiour Angel, I had stood
Then happy; no unbounded hope had raised
Ambition!  Yet why not some other Power
As great might have aspired, and me, though mean,
Drawn to his part; but other Powers as great
Fell not, but stand unshaken, from within
Or from without, to all temptations armed.
Hadst thou the same free will and power to stand?
Thou hadst: whom hast thou then or what to accuse,
But Heaven's free love dealt equally to all?
Be then his love accursed, since love or hate,
To me alike, it deals eternal woe.
Nay, cursed be thou; since against his thy will
Chose freely what it now so justly rues.
Me miserable! which way shall I fly
Infinite wrath, and infinite despair?
Which way I fly is Hell; myself am Hell;
And, in the lowest deep, a lower deep
Still threatening to devour me opens wide,
To which the Hell I suffer seems a Heaven.
O, then, at last relent:  Is there no place
Left for repentance, none for pardon left?
None left but by submission; and that word
Disdain forbids me, and my dread of shame
Among the Spirits beneath, whom I seduced
With other promises and other vaunts
Than to submit, boasting I could subdue
The Omnipotent.  Ay me! they little know
How dearly I abide that boast so vain,
Under what torments inwardly I groan,
While they adore me on the throne of Hell.
With diadem and scepter high advanced,
The lower still I fall, only supreme
In misery:  Such joy ambition finds.
But say I could repent, and could obtain,
By act of grace, my former state; how soon
Would highth recall high thoughts, how soon unsay
What feigned submission swore?  Ease would recant
Vows made in pain, as violent and void.
For never can true reconcilement grow,
Where wounds of deadly hate have pierced so deep:
Which would but lead me to a worse relapse
And heavier fall:  so should I purchase dear
Short intermission bought with double smart.
This knows my Punisher; therefore as far
From granting he, as I from begging, peace;
All hope excluded thus, behold, in stead
Mankind created, and for him this world.
So farewell, hope; and with hope farewell, fear;
Farewell, remorse! all good to me is lost;
Evil, be thou my good; by thee at least
Divided empire with Heaven's King I hold,
By thee, and more than half perhaps will reign;
As Man ere long, and this new world, shall know.
Thus while he spake, each passion dimmed his face
Thrice changed with pale, ire, envy, and despair;
Which marred his borrowed visage, and betrayed
Him counterfeit, if any eye beheld.
For heavenly minds from such distempers foul
Are ever clear.  Whereof he soon aware,
Each perturbation smoothed with outward calm,
Artificer of fraud; and was the first
That practised falsehood under saintly show,
Deep malice to conceal, couched with revenge:
Yet not enough had practised to deceive
Uriel once warned; whose eye pursued him down
The way he went, and on the Assyrian mount
Saw him disfigured, more than could befall
Spirit of happy sort; his gestures fierce
He marked and mad demeanour, then alone,
As he supposed, all unobserved, unseen.
So on he fares, and to the border comes
Of Eden, where delicious Paradise,
Now nearer, crowns with her enclosure green,
As with a rural mound, the champaign head
Of a steep wilderness, whose hairy sides
Access denied; and overhead upgrew
Insuperable height of loftiest shade,
Cedar, and pine, and fir, and branching palm,
A sylvan scene, and, as the ranks ascend,
Shade above shade, a woody theatre
Of stateliest view. Yet higher than their tops
The verdurous wall of Paradise upsprung;
Which to our general sire gave prospect large
Into his nether empire neighbouring round.
And higher than that wall a circling row
Of goodliest trees, loaden with fairest fruit,
Blossoms and fruits at once of golden hue,
Appeared, with gay enamelled colours mixed:
On which the sun more glad impressed his beams
Than in fair evening cloud, or humid bow,
When God hath showered the earth; so lovely seemed
That landskip:  And of pure now purer air
Meets his approach, and to the heart inspires
Vernal delight and joy, able to drive
All sadness but despair:  Now gentle gales,
Fanning their odoriferous wings, dispense
Native perfumes, and whisper whence they stole
Those balmy spoils.  As when to them who fail
Beyond the Cape of Hope, and now are past
Mozambick, off at sea north-east winds blow
Sabean odours from the spicy shore
Of Araby the blest; with such delay
Well pleased they slack their course, and many a league
Cheered with the grateful smell old Ocean smiles:
So entertained those odorous sweets the Fiend,
Who came their bane; though with them better pleased
Than Asmodeus with the fishy fume
That drove him, though enamoured, from the spouse
Of Tobit's son, and with a vengeance sent
From Media post to Egypt, there fast bound.
Now to the ascent of that steep savage hill
Satan had journeyed on, pensive and slow;
But further way found none, so thick entwined,
As one continued brake, the undergrowth
Of shrubs and tangling bushes had perplexed
All path of man or beast that passed that way.
One gate there only was, and that looked east
On the other side: which when the arch-felon saw,
Due entrance he disdained; and, in contempt,
At one flight bound high over-leaped all bound
Of hill or highest wall, and sheer within
Lights on his feet.  As when a prowling wolf,
Whom hunger drives to seek new haunt for prey,
Watching where shepherds pen their flocks at eve
In hurdled cotes amid the field secure,
Leaps o'er the fence with ease into the fold:
Or as a thief, bent to unhoard the cash
Of some rich burgher, whose substantial doors,
Cross-barred and bolted fast, fear no assault,
In at the window climbs, or o'er the tiles:
So clomb this first grand thief into God's fold;
So since into his church lewd hirelings climb.
Thence up he flew, and on the tree of life,
The middle tree and highest there that grew,
Sat like a cormorant; yet not true life
Thereby regained, but sat devising death
To them who lived; nor on the virtue thought
Of that life-giving plant, but only used
For prospect, what well used had been the pledge
Of immortality.  So little knows
Any, but God alone, to value right
The good before him, but perverts best things
To worst abuse, or to their meanest use.
Beneath him with new wonder now he views,
To all delight of human sense exposed,
In narrow room, Nature's whole wealth, yea more,
A Heaven on Earth:  For blissful Paradise
Of God the garden was, by him in the east
Of Eden planted; Eden stretched her line
From Auran eastward to the royal towers
Of great Seleucia, built by Grecian kings,
Of where the sons of Eden long before
Dwelt in Telassar:  In this pleasant soil
His far more pleasant garden God ordained;
Out of the fertile ground he caused to grow
All trees of noblest kind for sight, smell, taste;
And all amid them stood the tree of life,
High eminent, blooming ambrosial fruit
Of vegetable gold; and next to life,
Our death, the tree of knowledge, grew fast by,
Knowledge of good bought dear by knowing ill.
Southward through Eden went a river large,
Nor changed his course, but through the shaggy hill
Passed underneath ingulfed; for God had thrown
That mountain as his garden-mould high raised
Upon the rapid current, which, through veins
Of porous earth with kindly thirst up-drawn,
Rose a fresh fountain, and with many a rill
Watered the garden; thence united fell
Down the steep glade, and met the nether flood,
Which from his darksome passage now appears,
And now, divided into four main streams,
Runs diverse, wandering many a famous realm
And country, whereof here needs no account;
But rather to tell how, if Art could tell,
How from that sapphire fount the crisped brooks,
Rolling on orient pearl and sands of gold,
With mazy errour under pendant shades
Ran nectar, visiting each plant, and fed
Flowers worthy of Paradise, which not nice Art
In beds and curious knots, but Nature boon
Poured forth profuse on hill, and dale, and plain,
Both where the morning sun first warmly smote
The open field, and where the unpierced shade
Imbrowned the noontide bowers:  Thus was this place
A happy rural seat of various view;
Groves whose rich trees wept odorous gums and balm,
Others whose fruit, burnished with golden rind,
Hung amiable, Hesperian fables true,
If true, here only, and of delicious taste:
Betwixt them lawns, or level downs, and flocks
Grazing the tender herb, were interposed,
Or palmy hillock; or the flowery lap
Of some irriguous valley spread her store,
Flowers of all hue, and without thorn the rose:
Another side, umbrageous grots and caves
Of cool recess, o'er which the mantling vine
Lays forth her purple grape, and gently creeps
Luxuriant; mean while murmuring waters fall
Down the slope hills, dispersed, or in a lake,
That to the fringed bank with myrtle crowned
Her crystal mirrour holds, unite their streams.
The birds their quire apply; airs, vernal airs,
Breathing the smell of field and grove, attune
The trembling leaves, while universal Pan,
Knit with the Graces and the Hours in dance,
Led on the eternal Spring.  Not that fair field
Of Enna, where Proserpine gathering flowers,
Herself a fairer flower by gloomy Dis
Was gathered, which cost Ceres all that pain
To seek her through the world; nor that sweet grove
Of Daphne by Orontes, and the inspired
Castalian spring, might with this Paradise
Of Eden strive; nor that Nyseian isle
Girt with the river Triton, where old Cham,
Whom Gentiles Ammon call and Libyan Jove,
Hid Amalthea, and her florid son
Young Bacchus, from his stepdame Rhea's eye;
Nor where Abassin kings their issue guard,
Mount Amara, though this by some supposed
True Paradise under the Ethiop line
By Nilus' head, enclosed with shining rock,
A whole day's journey high, but wide remote
From this Assyrian garden, where the Fiend
Saw, undelighted, all delight, all kind
Of living creatures, new to sight, and strange
Two of far nobler shape, erect and tall,
Godlike erect, with native honour clad
In naked majesty seemed lords of all:
And worthy seemed; for in their looks divine
The image of their glorious Maker shone,
Truth, wisdom, sanctitude severe and pure,
(Severe, but in true filial freedom placed,)
Whence true authority in men; though both
Not equal, as their sex not equal seemed;
For contemplation he and valour formed;
For softness she and sweet attractive grace;
He for God only, she for God in him:
His fair large front and eye sublime declared
Absolute rule; and hyacinthine locks
Round from his parted forelock manly hung
Clustering, but not beneath his shoulders broad:
She, as a veil, down to the slender waist
Her unadorned golden tresses wore
Dishevelled, but in wanton ringlets waved
As the vine curls her tendrils, which implied
Subjection, but required with gentle sway,
And by her yielded, by him best received,
Yielded with coy submission, modest pride,
And sweet, reluctant, amorous delay.
Nor those mysterious parts were then concealed;
Then was not guilty shame, dishonest shame
Of nature's works, honour dishonourable,
Sin-bred, how have ye troubled all mankind
With shows instead, mere shows of seeming pure,
And banished from man's life his happiest life,
Simplicity and spotless innocence!
So passed they naked on, nor shunned the sight
Of God or Angel; for they thought no ill:
So hand in hand they passed, the loveliest pair,
That ever since in love's embraces met;
Adam the goodliest man of men since born
His sons, the fairest of her daughters Eve.
Under a tuft of shade that on a green
Stood whispering soft, by a fresh fountain side
They sat them down; and, after no more toil
Of their sweet gardening labour than sufficed
To recommend cool Zephyr, and made ease
More easy, wholesome thirst and appetite
More grateful, to their supper-fruits they fell,
Nectarine fruits which the compliant boughs
Yielded them, side-long as they sat recline
On the soft downy bank damasked with flowers:
The savoury pulp they chew, and in the rind,
Still as they thirsted, scoop the brimming stream;
Nor gentle purpose, nor endearing smiles
Wanted, nor youthful dalliance, as beseems
Fair couple, linked in happy nuptial league,
Alone as they.  About them frisking played
All beasts of the earth, since wild, and of all chase
In wood or wilderness, forest or den;
Sporting the lion ramped, and in his paw
Dandled the kid; bears, tigers, ounces, pards,
Gambolled before them; the unwieldy elephant,
To make them mirth, used all his might, and wreathed
His?kithetmroboscis; close the serpent sly,
Insinuating, wove with Gordian twine
His braided train, and of his fatal guile
Gave proof unheeded; others on the grass
Couched, and now filled with pasture gazing sat,
Or bedward ruminating; for the sun,
Declined, was hasting now with prone career
To the ocean isles, and in the ascending scale
Of Heaven the stars that usher evening rose:
When Satan still in gaze, as first he stood,
Scarce thus at length failed speech recovered sad.
O Hell! what do mine eyes with grief behold!
Into our room of bliss thus high advanced
Creatures of other mould, earth-born perhaps,
Not Spirits, yet to heavenly Spirits bright
Little inferiour; whom my thoughts pursue
With wonder, and could love, so lively shines
In them divine resemblance, and such grace
The hand that formed them on their shape hath poured.
Ah! gentle pair, ye little think how nigh
Your change approaches, when all these delights
Will vanish, and deliver ye to woe;
More woe, the more your taste is now of joy;
Happy, but for so happy ill secured
Long to continue, and this high seat your Heaven
Ill fenced for Heaven to keep out such a foe
As now is entered; yet no purposed foe
To you, whom I could pity thus forlorn,
Though I unpitied:  League with you I seek,
And mutual amity, so strait, so close,
That I with you must dwell, or you with me
Henceforth; my dwelling haply may not please,
Like this fair Paradise, your sense; yet such
Accept your Maker's work; he gave it me,
Which I as freely give:  Hell shall unfold,
To entertain you two, her widest gates,
And send forth all her kings; there will be room,
Not like these narrow limits, to receive
Your numerous offspring; if no better place,
Thank him who puts me loth to this revenge
On you who wrong me not for him who wronged.
And should I at your harmless innocence
Melt, as I do, yet publick reason just,
Honour and empire with revenge enlarged,
By conquering this new world, compels me now
To do what else, though damned, I should abhor.
So spake the Fiend, and with necessity,
The tyrant's plea, excused his devilish deeds.
Then from his lofty stand on that high tree
Down he alights among the sportful herd
Of those four-footed kinds, himself now one,
Now other, as their shape served best his end
Nearer to view his prey, and, unespied,
To mark what of their state he more might learn,
By word or action marked. About them round
A lion now he stalks with fiery glare;
Then as a tiger, who by chance hath spied
In some purlieu two gentle fawns at play,
Straight couches close, then, rising, changes oft
His couchant watch, as one who chose his ground,
Whence rushing, he might surest seize them both,
Griped in each paw: when, Adam first of men
To first of women Eve thus moving speech,
Turned him, all ear to hear new utterance flow.
Sole partner, and sole part, of all these joys,
Dearer thyself than all; needs must the Power
That made us, and for us this ample world,
Be infinitely good, and of his good
As liberal and free as infinite;
That raised us from the dust, and placed us here
In all this happiness, who at his hand
Have nothing merited, nor can perform
Aught whereof he hath need; he who requires
From us no other service than to keep
This one, this easy charge, of all the trees
In Paradise that bear delicious fruit
So various, not to taste that only tree
Of knowledge, planted by the tree of life;
So near grows death to life, whate'er death is,
Some dreadful thing no doubt; for well thou knowest
God hath pronounced it death to taste that tree,
The only sign of our obedience left,
Among so many signs of power and rule
Conferred upon us, and dominion given
Over all other creatures that possess
Earth, air, and sea.  Then let us not think hard
One easy prohibition, who enjoy
Free leave so large to all things else, and choice
Unlimited of manifold delights:
But let us ever praise him, and extol
His bounty, following our delightful task,
To prune these growing plants, and tend these flowers,
Which were it toilsome, yet with thee were sweet.
To whom thus Eve replied.  O thou for whom
And from whom I was formed, flesh of thy flesh,
And without whom am to no end, my guide
And head! what thou hast said is just and right.
For we to him indeed all praises owe,
And daily thanks; I chiefly, who enjoy
So far the happier lot, enjoying thee
Pre-eminent by so much odds, while thou
Like consort to thyself canst no where find.
That day I oft remember, when from sleep
I first awaked, and found myself reposed
Under a shade on flowers, much wondering where
And what I was, whence thither brought, and how.
Not distant far from thence a murmuring sound
Of waters issued from a cave, and spread
Into a liquid plain, then stood unmoved
Pure as the expanse of Heaven; I thither went
With unexperienced thought, and laid me down
On the green bank, to look into the clear
Smooth lake, that to me seemed another sky.
As I bent down to look, just opposite
A shape within the watery gleam appeared,
Bending to look on me:  I started back,
It started back; but pleased I soon returned,
Pleased it returned as soon with answering looks
Of sympathy and love:  There I had fixed
Mine eyes till now, and pined with vain desire,
Had not a voice thus warned me;  'What thou seest,
'What there thou seest, fair Creature, is thyself;
'With thee it came and goes: but follow me,
'And I will bring thee where no shadow stays
'Thy coming, and thy soft embraces, he
'Whose image thou art; him thou shalt enjoy
'Inseparably thine, to him shalt bear
'Multitudes like thyself, and thence be called
'Mother of human race.'  What could I do,
But follow straight, invisibly thus led?
Till I espied thee, fair indeed and tall,
Under a platane; yet methought less fair,
Less winning soft, less amiably mild,
Than that smooth watery image:  Back I turned;
Thou following cryedst aloud, 'Return, fair Eve;
'Whom flyest thou?  whom thou flyest, of him thou art,
'His flesh, his bone; to give thee being I lent
'Out of my side to thee, nearest my heart,
'Substantial life, to have thee by my side
'Henceforth an individual solace dear;
'Part of my soul I seek thee, and thee claim
'My other half:'  With that thy gentle hand
Seised mine:  I yielded;and from that time see
How beauty is excelled by manly grace,
And wisdom, which alone is truly fair.
So spake our general mother, and with eyes
Of conjugal attraction unreproved,
And meek surrender, half-embracing leaned
On our first father; half her swelling breast
Naked met his, under the flowing gold
Of her loose tresses hid: he in delight
Both of her beauty, and submissive charms,
Smiled with superiour love, as Jupiter
On Juno smiles, when he impregns the clouds
That shed Mayflowers; and pressed her matron lip
With kisses pure:  Aside the Devil turned
For envy; yet with jealous leer malign
Eyed them askance, and to himself thus plained.
Sight hateful, sight tormenting! thus these two,
Imparadised in one another's arms,
The happier Eden, shall enjoy their fill
Of bliss on bliss; while I to Hell am thrust,
Where neither joy nor love, but fierce desire,
Among our other torments not the least,
Still unfulfilled with pain of longing pines.
Yet let me not forget what I have gained
From their own mouths:  All is not theirs, it seems;
One fatal tree there stands, of knowledge called,
Forbidden them to taste:  Knowledge forbidden
Suspicious, reasonless.  Why should their Lord
Envy them that?  Can it be sin to know?
Can it be death?  And do they only stand
By ignorance?  Is that their happy state,
The proof of their obedience and their faith?
O fair foundation laid whereon to build
Their ruin! hence I will excite their minds
With more desire to know, and to reject
Envious commands, invented with design
To keep them low, whom knowledge might exalt
Equal with Gods: aspiring to be such,
They taste and die:  What likelier can ensue
But first with narrow search I must walk round
This garden, and no corner leave unspied;
A chance but chance may lead where I may meet
Some wandering Spirit of Heaven by fountain side,
Or in thick shade retired, from him to draw
What further would be learned.  Live while ye may,
Yet happy pair; enjoy, till I return,
Short pleasures, for long woes are to succeed!
So saying, his proud step he scornful turned,
But with sly circumspection, and began
Through wood, through waste, o'er hill, o'er dale, his roam
Mean while in utmost longitude, where Heaven
With earth and ocean meets, the setting sun
Slowly descended, and with right aspect
Against the eastern gate of Paradise
Levelled his evening rays:  It was a rock
Of alabaster, piled up to the clouds,
Conspicuous far, winding with one ascent
Accessible from earth, one entrance high;
The rest was craggy cliff, that overhung
Still as it rose, impossible to climb.
Betwixt these rocky pillars Gabriel sat,
Chief of the angelick guards, awaiting night;
About him exercised heroick games
The unarmed youth of Heaven, but nigh at hand
Celestial armoury, shields, helms, and spears,
Hung high with diamond flaming, and with gold.
Thither came Uriel, gliding through the even
On a sun-beam, swift as a shooting star
In autumn thwarts the night, when vapours fired
Impress the air, and shows the mariner
From what point of his compass to beware
Impetuous winds:  He thus began in haste.
Gabriel, to thee thy course by lot hath given
Charge and strict watch, that to this happy place
No evil thing approach or enter in.
This day at highth of noon came to my sphere
A Spirit, zealous, as he seemed, to know
More of the Almighty's works, and chiefly Man,
God's latest image:  I described his way
Bent all on speed, and marked his aery gait;
But in the mount that lies from Eden north,
Where he first lighted, soon discerned his looks
Alien from Heaven, with passions foul obscured:
Mine eye pursued him still, but under shade
Lost sight of him:  One of the banished crew,
I fear, hath ventured from the deep, to raise
New troubles; him thy care must be to find.
To whom the winged warriour thus returned.
Uriel, no wonder if thy perfect sight,
Amid the sun's bright circle where thou sitst,
See far and wide:  In at this gate none pass
The vigilance here placed, but such as come
Well known from Heaven; and since meridian hour
No creature thence:  If Spirit of other sort,
So minded, have o'er-leaped these earthly bounds
On purpose, hard thou knowest it to exclude
Spiritual substance with corporeal bar.
But if within the circuit of these walks,
In whatsoever shape he lurk, of whom
Thou tellest, by morrow dawning I shall know.
So promised he; and Uriel to his charge
Returned on that bright beam, whose point now raised
Bore him slope downward to the sun now fallen
Beneath the Azores; whether the prime orb,
Incredible how swift, had thither rolled
Diurnal, or this less volubil earth,
By shorter flight to the east, had left him there
Arraying with reflected purple and gold
The clouds that on his western throne attend.
Now came still Evening on, and Twilight gray
Had in her sober livery all things clad;
Silence accompanied; for beast and bird,
They to their grassy couch, these to their nests
Were slunk, all but the wakeful nightingale;
She all night long her amorous descant sung;
Silence was pleased:  Now glowed the firmament
With living sapphires:  Hesperus, that led
The starry host, rode brightest, till the moon,
Rising in clouded majesty, at length
Apparent queen unveiled her peerless light,
And o'er the dark her silver mantle threw.
When Adam thus to Eve.  Fair Consort, the hour
Of night, and all things now retired to rest,
Mind us of like repose; since God hath set
Labour and rest, as day and night, to men
Successive; and the timely dew of sleep,
Now falling with soft slumbrous weight, inclines
Our eye-lids:  Other creatures all day long
Rove idle, unemployed, and less need rest;
Man hath his daily work of body or mind
Appointed, which declares his dignity,
And the regard of Heaven on all his ways;
While other animals unactive range,
And of their doings God takes no account.
To-morrow, ere fresh morning streak the east
With first approach of light, we must be risen,
And at our pleasant labour, to reform
Yon flowery arbours, yonder alleys green,
Our walk at noon, with branches overgrown,
That mock our scant manuring, and require
More hands than ours to lop their wanton growth:
Those blossoms also, and those dropping gums,
That lie bestrown, unsightly and unsmooth,
Ask riddance, if we mean to tread with ease;
Mean while, as Nature wills, night bids us rest.
To whom thus Eve, with perfect beauty adorned
My Author and Disposer, what thou bidst
Unargued I obey:  So God ordains;
God is thy law, thou mine:  To know no more
Is woman's happiest knowledge, and her praise.
With thee conversing I forget all time;
All seasons, and their change, all please alike.
Sweet is the breath of Morn, her rising sweet,
With charm of earliest birds:  pleasant the sun,
When first on this delightful land he spreads
His orient beams, on herb, tree, fruit, and flower,
Glistering with dew; fragrant the fertile earth
After soft showers; and sweet the coming on
Of grateful Evening mild; then silent Night,
With this her solemn bird, and this fair moon,
And these the gems of Heaven, her starry train:
But neither breath of Morn, when she ascends
With charm of earliest birds; nor rising sun
On this delightful land; nor herb, fruit, flower,
Glistering with dew; nor fragrance after showers;
Nor grateful Evening mild; nor silent Night,
With this her solemn bird, nor walk by moon,
Or glittering star-light, without thee is sweet.
But wherefore all night long shine these? for whom
This glorious sight, when sleep hath shut all eyes?
To whom our general ancestor replied.
Daughter of God and Man, accomplished Eve,
These have their course to finish round the earth,
By morrow evening, and from land to land
In order, though to nations yet unborn,
Ministring light prepared, they set and rise;
Lest total Darkness should by night regain
Her old possession, and extinguish life
In Nature and all things; which these soft fires
Not only enlighten, but with kindly heat
Of various influence foment and warm,
Temper or nourish, or in part shed down
Their stellar virtue on all kinds that grow
On earth, made hereby apter to receive
Perfection from the sun's more potent ray.
These then, though unbeheld in deep of night,
Shine not in vain; nor think, though men were none,
That Heaven would want spectators, God want praise:
Millions of spiritual creatures walk the earth
Unseen, both when we wake, and when we sleep:
All these with ceaseless praise his works behold
Both day and night:  How often from the steep
Of echoing hill or thicket have we heard
Celestial voices to the midnight air,
Sole, or responsive each to others note,
Singing their great Creator? oft in bands
While they keep watch, or nightly rounding walk,
With heavenly touch of instrumental sounds
In full harmonick number joined, their songs
Divide the night, and lift our thoughts to Heaven.
Thus talking, hand in hand alone they passed
On to their blissful bower: it was a place
Chosen by the sovran Planter, when he framed
All things to Man's delightful use; the roof
Of thickest covert was inwoven shade
Laurel and myrtle, and what higher grew
Of firm and fragrant leaf; on either side
Acanthus, and each odorous bushy shrub,
Fenced up the verdant wall; each beauteous flower,
Iris all hues, roses, and jessamin,
Reared high their flourished heads between, and wrought
Mosaick; underfoot the violet,
Crocus, and hyacinth, with rich inlay
Broidered the ground, more coloured than with stone
Of costliest emblem:  Other creature here,
Bird, beast, insect, or worm, durst enter none,
Such was their awe of Man.  In shadier bower
More sacred and sequestered, though but feigned,
Pan or Sylvanus never slept, nor Nymph
Nor Faunus haunted.  Here, in close recess,
With flowers, garlands, and sweet-smelling herbs,
Espoused Eve decked first her nuptial bed;
And heavenly quires the hymenaean sung,
What day the genial Angel to our sire
Brought her in naked beauty more adorned,
More lovely, than Pandora, whom the Gods
Endowed with all their gifts, and O! too like
In sad event, when to the unwiser son
Of Japhet brought by Hermes, she ensnared
Mankind with her fair looks, to be avenged
On him who had stole Jove's authentick fire.
Thus, at their shady lodge arrived, both stood,
Both turned, and under open sky adored
The God that made both sky, air, earth, and heaven,
Which they beheld, the moon's resplendent globe,
And starry pole:  Thou also madest the night,
Maker Omnipotent, and thou the day,
Which we, in our appointed work employed,
Have finished, happy in our mutual help
And mutual love, the crown of all our bliss
Ordained by thee; and this delicious place
For us too large, where thy abundance wants
Partakers, and uncropt falls to the ground.
But thou hast promised from us two a race
To fill the earth, who shall with us extol
Thy goodness infinite, both when we wake,
And when we seek, as now, thy gift of sleep.
This said unanimous, and other rites
Observing none, but adoration pure
Which God likes best, into their inmost bower
Handed they went; and, eased the putting off
These troublesome disguises which we wear,
Straight side by side were laid; nor turned, I ween,
Adam from his fair spouse, nor Eve the rites
Mysterious of connubial love refused:
Whatever hypocrites austerely talk
Of purity, and place, and innocence,
Defaming as impure what God declares
Pure, and commands to some, leaves free to all.
Our Maker bids encrease; who bids abstain
But our Destroyer, foe to God and Man?
Hail, wedded Love, mysterious law, true source
Of human offspring, sole propriety
In Paradise of all things common else!
By thee adulterous Lust was driven from men
Among the bestial herds to range; by thee
Founded in reason, loyal, just, and pure,
Relations dear, and all the charities
Of father, son, and brother, first were known.
Far be it, that I should write thee sin or blame,
Or think thee unbefitting holiest place,
Perpetual fountain of domestick sweets,
Whose bed is undefiled and chaste pronounced,
Present, or past, as saints and patriarchs used.
Here Love his golden shafts employs, here lights
His constant lamp, and waves his purple wings,
Reigns here and revels; not in the bought smile
Of harlots, loveless, joyless, unendeared,
Casual fruition; nor in court-amours,
Mixed dance, or wanton mask, or midnight ball,
Or serenate, which the starved lover sings
To his proud fair, best quitted with disdain.
These, lulled by nightingales, embracing slept,
And on their naked limbs the flowery roof
Showered roses, which the morn repaired.  Sleep on,
Blest pair; and O!yet happiest, if ye seek
No happier state, and know to know no more.
Now had night measured with her shadowy cone
Half way up hill this vast sublunar vault,
And from their ivory port the Cherubim,
Forth issuing at the accustomed hour, stood armed
To their night watches in warlike parade;
When Gabriel to his next in power thus spake.
Uzziel, half these draw off, and coast the south
With strictest watch; these other wheel the north;
Our circuit meets full west.  As flame they part,
Half wheeling to the shield, half to the spear.
From these, two strong and subtle Spirits he called
That near him stood, and gave them thus in charge.
Ithuriel and Zephon, with winged speed
Search through this garden, leave unsearched no nook;
But chiefly where those two fair creatures lodge,
Now laid perhaps asleep, secure of harm.
This evening from the sun's decline arrived,
Who tells of some infernal Spirit seen
Hitherward bent (who could have thought?) escaped
The bars of Hell, on errand bad no doubt:
Such, where ye find, seise fast, and hither bring.
So saying, on he led his radiant files,
Dazzling the moon; these to the bower direct
In search of whom they sought:  Him there they found
Squat like a toad, close at the ear of Eve,
Assaying by his devilish art to reach
The organs of her fancy, and with them forge
Illusions, as he list, phantasms and dreams;
Or if, inspiring venom, he might taint
The animal spirits, that from pure blood arise
Like gentle breaths from rivers pure, thence raise
At least distempered, discontented thoughts,
Vain hopes, vain aims, inordinate desires,
Blown up with high conceits ingendering pride.
Him thus intent Ithuriel with his spear
Touched lightly; for no falshood can endure
Touch of celestial temper, but returns
Of force to its own likeness:  Up he starts
Discovered and surprised.  As when a spark
Lights on a heap of nitrous powder, laid
Fit for the tun some magazine to store
Against a rumoured war, the smutty grain,
With sudden blaze diffused, inflames the air;
So started up in his own shape the Fiend.
Back stept those two fair Angels, half amazed
So sudden to behold the grisly king;
Yet thus, unmoved with fear, accost him soon.
Which of those rebel Spirits adjudged to Hell
Comest thou, escaped thy prison? and, transformed,
Why sat'st thou like an enemy in wait,
Here watching at the head of these that sleep?
Know ye not then said Satan, filled with scorn,
Know ye not me? ye knew me once no mate
For you, there sitting where ye durst not soar:
Not to know me argues yourselves unknown,
The lowest of your throng; or, if ye know,
Why ask ye, and superfluous begin
Your message, like to end as much in vain?
To whom thus Zephon, answering scorn with scorn.
Think not, revolted Spirit, thy shape the same,
Or undiminished brightness to be known,
As when thou stoodest in Heaven upright and pure;
That glory then, when thou no more wast good,
Departed from thee; and thou resemblest now
Thy sin and place of doom obscure and foul.
But come, for thou, be sure, shalt give account
To him who sent us, whose charge is to keep
This place inviolable, and these from harm.
So spake the Cherub; and his grave rebuke,
Severe in youthful beauty, added grace
Invincible:  Abashed the Devil stood,
And felt how awful goodness is, and saw
Virtue in her shape how lovely; saw, and pined
His loss; but chiefly to find here observed
His lustre visibly impaired; yet seemed
Undaunted.  If I must contend, said he,
Best with the best, the sender, not the sent,
Or all at once; more glory will be won,
Or less be lost.  Thy fear, said Zephon bold,
Will save us trial what the least can do
Single against thee wicked, and thence weak.
The Fiend replied not, overcome with rage;
But, like a proud steed reined, went haughty on,
Champing his iron curb:  To strive or fly
He held it vain; awe from above had quelled
His heart, not else dismayed.  Now drew they nigh
The western point, where those half-rounding guards
Just met, and closing stood in squadron joined,
A waiting next command.  To whom their Chief,
Gabriel, from the front thus called aloud.
O friends!  I hear the tread of nimble feet
Hasting this way, and now by glimpse discern
Ithuriel and Zephon through the shade;
And with them comes a third of regal port,
But faded splendour wan; who by his gait
And fierce demeanour seems the Prince of Hell,
Not likely to part hence without contest;
Stand firm, for in his look defiance lours.
He scarce had ended, when those two approached,
And brief related whom they brought, where found,
How busied, in what form and posture couched.
To whom with stern regard thus Gabriel spake.
Why hast thou, Satan, broke the bounds prescribed
To thy transgressions, and disturbed the charge
Of others, who approve not to transgress
By thy example, but have power and right
To question thy bold entrance on this place;
Employed, it seems, to violate sleep, and those
Whose dwelling God hath planted here in bliss!
To whom thus Satan with contemptuous brow.
Gabriel? thou hadst in Heaven the esteem of wise,
And such I held thee; but this question asked
Puts me in doubt.  Lives there who loves his pain!
Who would not, finding way, break loose from Hell,
Though thither doomed!  Thou wouldst thyself, no doubt
And boldly venture to whatever place
Farthest from pain, where thou mightst hope to change
Torment with ease, and soonest recompense
Dole with delight, which in this place I sought;
To thee no reason, who knowest only good,
But evil hast not tried: and wilt object
His will who bounds us!  Let him surer bar
His iron gates, if he intends our stay
In that dark durance:  Thus much what was asked.
The rest is true, they found me where they say;
But that implies not violence or harm.
Thus he in scorn.  The warlike Angel moved,
Disdainfully half smiling, thus replied.
O loss of one in Heaven to judge of wise
Since Satan fell, whom folly overthrew,
And now returns him from his prison 'scaped,
Gravely in doubt whether to hold them wise
Or not, who ask what boldness brought him hither
Unlicensed from his bounds in Hell prescribed;
So wise he judges it to fly from pain
However, and to 'scape his punishment!
So judge thou still, presumptuous! till the wrath,
Which thou incurrest by flying, meet thy flight
Sevenfold, and scourge that wisdom back to Hell,
Which taught thee yet no better, that no pain
Can equal anger infinite provoked.
But wherefore thou alone? wherefore with thee
Came not all hell broke loose? or thou than they
Less hardy to endure?  Courageous Chief!
The first in flight from pain! hadst thou alleged
To thy deserted host this cause of flight,
Thou surely hadst not come sole fugitive.
To which the Fiend thus answered, frowning stern.
Not that I less endure, or shrink from pain,
Insulting Angel! well thou knowest I stood
Thy fiercest, when in battle to thy aid
The blasting vollied thunder made all speed,
And seconded thy else not dreaded spear.
But still thy words at random, as before,
Argue thy inexperience what behoves
From hard assays and ill successes past
A faithful leader, not to hazard all
Through ways of danger by himself untried:
I, therefore, I alone first undertook
To wing the desolate abyss, and spy
This new created world, whereof in Hell
Fame is not silent, here in hope to find
Better abode, and my afflicted Powers
To settle here on earth, or in mid air;
Though for possession put to try once more
What thou and thy gay legions dare against;
Whose easier business were to serve their Lord
High up in Heaven, with songs to hymn his throne,
And practised distances to cringe, not fight,
To whom the warriour Angel soon replied.
To say and straight unsay, pretending first
Wise to fly pain, professing next the spy,
Argues no leader but a liear traced,
Satan, and couldst thou faithful add?  O name,
O sacred name of faithfulness profaned!
Faithful to whom? to thy rebellious crew?
Army of Fiends, fit body to fit head.
Was this your discipline and faith engaged,
Your military obedience, to dissolve
Allegiance to the acknowledged Power supreme?
And thou, sly hypocrite, who now wouldst seem
Patron of liberty, who more than thou
Once fawned, and cringed, and servily adored
Heaven's awful Monarch? wherefore, but in hope
To dispossess him, and thyself to reign?
But mark what I arreed thee now, Avant;
Fly neither whence thou fledst!  If from this hour
Within these hallowed limits thou appear,
Back to the infernal pit I drag thee chained,
And seal thee so, as henceforth not to scorn
The facile gates of Hell too slightly barred.
So threatened he; but Satan to no threats
Gave heed, but waxing more in rage replied.
Then when I am thy captive talk of chains,
Proud limitary Cherub! but ere then
Far heavier load thyself expect to feel
From my prevailing arm, though Heaven's King
Ride on thy wings, and thou with thy compeers,
Us'd to the yoke, drawest his triumphant wheels
In progress through the road of Heaven star-paved.
While thus he spake, the angelick squadron bright
Turned fiery red, sharpening in mooned horns
Their phalanx, and began to hem him round
With ported spears, as thick as when a field
Of Ceres ripe for harvest waving bends
Her bearded grove of ears, which way the wind
Sways them; the careful plowman doubting stands,
Left on the threshing floor his hopeless sheaves
Prove chaff.  On the other side, Satan, alarmed,
Collecting all his might, dilated stood,
Like Teneriff or Atlas, unremoved:
His stature reached the sky, and on his crest
Sat Horrour plumed; nor wanted in his grasp
What seemed both spear and shield:  Now dreadful deeds
Might have ensued, nor only Paradise
In this commotion, but the starry cope
Of Heaven perhaps, or all the elements
At least had gone to wrack, disturbed and torn
With violence of this conflict, had not soon
The Eternal, to prevent such horrid fray,
Hung forth in Heaven his golden scales, yet seen
Betwixt Astrea and the Scorpion sign,
Wherein all things created first he weighed,
The pendulous round earth with balanced air
In counterpoise, now ponders all events,
Battles and realms:  In these he put two weights,
The sequel each of parting and of fight:
The latter quick up flew, and kicked the beam,
Which Gabriel spying, thus bespake the Fiend.
Satan, I know thy strength, and thou knowest mine;
Neither our own, but given:  What folly then
To boast what arms can do? since thine no more
Than Heaven permits, nor mine, though doubled now
To trample thee as mire:  For proof look up,
And read thy lot in yon celestial sign;
Where thou art weighed, and shown how light, how weak,
If thou resist.  The Fiend looked up, and knew
His mounted scale aloft:  Nor more;but fled
Murmuring, and with him fled the shades of night.

One day when you lose the one you love
The first thing you will do, is look into the sky above
Ask the lord why he had to take them away
But you will know, you will see them someday
You know that they've gone to a better place
It's way up high, even further than space
All you ask is that they're always happy
So when you meet up, it will all be lovely
When you've lost your loved one
It is hard to get over it
When you've lost your loved one
You will never get used to it
You will love them for eternity
The thing you want for them, is to live their life happily
Ask the lord to keep them by his side
And help them through, so that he is their guide
In the end it doesn't really matter
What's done is done as life begins to shatter
All we can do now is to remember them
And one day soon, we will be joined together again
When you've lost you loved one
It is hard to get over it
When you've lost your loved one
You will never get used to it

The people take the thing of course,
They marvel not to see
This strange, unnatural divorce
Betwixt delight and me.
I know the face of sorrow, and I know
Her voice with all its varied cadences;
Which way she turns and treads; how at her ease
Things fit her dreary largess to bestow.
Where sorrow long abides, some be that grow
To hold her dear, but I am not of these;
Joy is my friend, not sorrow; by strange seas,
In some far land we wandered, long ago.
O faith, long tried, that knows no faltering!
O vanished treasure of her hands and face!--
Beloved--to whose memory I cling,
Unmoved within my heart she holds her place.
And never shall I hail that other "friend,"
Who yet shall dog my footsteps to the end.

The time I've lost in wooing,
In watching and pursuing
The light that lies
In woman's eyes,
Has been my heart's undoing.
Tho' Wisdom oft has sought me,
I scorn'd the lore she brought me,
My only books
Were women's looks,
And folly's all they taught me.
Her smile when Beauty granted,
I hung with gaze enchanted,
Like him the Sprite
Whom maids by night
Oft meet in glen that's haunted.
Like him, too, Beauty won me;
But when the spell was on me,
If once their ray
Was turn'd away,
O! winds could not outrun me.
And are those follies going?
And is my proud heart growing
Too cold or wise
For brillant eyes
Again to set it glowing?
No -- vain, alas! th' endeavour
From bonds so sweet to sever: --
Poor Wisdom's chance
Against a glance
Is now as weak as ever.

Beware, my Love
Of the thunder
That we will encounter
When we touch
Beware, my love
Of the Rain
The outpourings of the pain
For the lost time
Beware, my love
Of the lightning
The resurrection that it will bring
Of our dormant desires
Beware, my Love
Of the flood
The mingling of our blood
When our skins dissolve
Beware, my Love
Of the reverbration
The resounding celebration
Of Our eternal Embrace

keeper of my heart
love me as long as i live
show me the bright light

It's been hours now just laying in bed
Almost time to get up for work but only your in my head
I'm laughing at myself for wishing for the same fantasy
Of you finally choosing you really want to be with me
Every second I relive the moments I had with you
Enjoying every second I heard I love you too
It's been forever since a smile has ever lasted on my face
Because no other has ever come close to every taken your place
At times it seems pointless like we were never meant to be
But then there are times I should just wait and see
I still wait and hang on to a slim glimpse of hope
Because losing you was something I just couldn't cope
Years have past with it seasons came and went
With thoughts of you my sleepless nights i spent
Even to this day I still remember our first kiss
It's still you I love it's your love I will always miss

Your eyes in my heart,
vast, deep, bluish,
a sweet breeze now touches
the brain, heart, mind and soul,
alluring lips
whisper in my ears again
the depth of your love
as the stars dappled stream flows
not disturbing anybody
reflecting its beauty ever,
wings of love, beauty and eternity
merge into one,
when? from where?
I don't know, sure,
I have got a bit of
soft spot for you and the apple of your eyes,
now, the ring on your little finger,
giggling bangles encircling the wrist,
light green vein on your soft hand
near the silver wrist watch,
swaying earrings stroking the cheek
appear more beautiful,
birds, flowers, butterflies,
life on the earth,
grass, galaxies, time and infinity,
my mind recollects all these...
Moses and Ten Commandments,
the Bible, the Qur'an, the Gita...
rationalists, communists, atheists...
Darwin, Freud, Newton,
Magellan, Copernicus, Shakespeare,
Van Gogh, Charles Chaplin,
E equals MC squared,
cloning, IT...
pianissimo, play on...
dreams...
an innocent smile
on the face of a child,
tears of a neglected old mother,
a rose lying near the tomb in silence
with scattered tears on the petals,
sleep, death, darkness...
why did I come here?
who sent me here?
where am I going after death?
there is life beyond the grave?
for whom do I wake up in the morning?
why the creations are in pairs: male and female?
why does nature bind me with your eyes?
why does nature allow your eyes
to pierce me so deep?
two doves ruffle their feathers
on the branches near the green leaves,
the sky kisses the ocean
making ripples and waves on its breast,
electrons keep their smartness
near the protons,
day and night play hide and seek,
Tajmahal blazes in the evening rays
pulsating the loveever...
the stars wink at each other
during theirtravel in the space,
moonlight touches the petals of lotus
in romance,
now the pregnant clouds pour,
the flowers and fruits delight the soul,
now, no prejudices,
no narrow domestic walls,
but love
your eyes
vast, deep, bluish...

She took away my fears
and opened my heart
like a letter
and found written
Love, love and love
all over.

Love, love, love...
Thanks goes to the all mighty one from up above.
You've brought my mate just to my side...
You've led the spiritual path for your son's holy guided stride.
He gave up his life for your good holy loved wide spread word...
Many people were forgiven,
of this fact forgiven ex-sinners have world widely heard.
Fate united me to my bride...
Cupid's arrow gave me such a wonderful wild crazy ride.
Thank God...
Amen!

Love was.....
When 'if' lay between you and I
And 'never' seemed forever
I fell to earth in surrender
And you became the centre of my eye
Love is.....
When I pass by you accidentally
I grab a sense of your smile
When between us is distance measured by the mile
I grab a sense of our love immeasurably
Love will be.....
When I can no longer see to see
When I can no longer hear to hear
I know you will be near
Simply just you and me
Love eternally.....
When God granted us our wish finally
He put in us a throbbing heart
When it stops from this earth we will depart
But our Love will live eternally
(For S.....)
My book of selected poems "My Voice is Silent to My Fears" is now available as a Kindle e-book.

O love love love love love love love
Makes me so glad baby makes me so sad
O love love love love love love love
Makes me so good baby makes me so bad
Your warm touch makes me feel like male
Your negligence burns me like hell
O love love love love love love love
What is love baby who can tell?
You can make me feel so dreamy
You can arouse envy in me
O love love love love love love love
Love can make me curse you baby!

To Love Or Not To Love
That is the question
Should or shouldn't we
To know love
To be love
You've got to feel love
You've got to know
When your in love
Or not
Do you know how it fills
To be in love
You've got to feel it
It feels so good to be in love
Your head rushes
Your heart beats
A million beats a minute
You can't stand it
When you have to be away
From him/ her for long periods of time
You think about him/ her 24/7
You dream about him/ her
You day dream about him/ her
To love or not to love
To love you've got to know
The risk of what happens
After you love
Not to love you've got to know
That this is really what you want
To feel love you've got to be love
You've got to love him your self
That is why
To love or not to love
Is and has always been
The main question of loving
This is why most people love
Know that they know every thing
About the person and the risks
This is why we love
Because we love him/ her
This is why we don't love
You don't know the person that well
Love and be happy
Or
Not love and be misserble
So I love
Just like others should too

A night of lust and love
Brush your lips against my neck
And so begins your siren trek
I will obey your call and beck
Am I your paladin?
With my heart do I placate
But with your eyes, you dominate
Fairest maiden, single magnate
Wield me with a passion
Let thy heart be true and clear
Let me love you without fear
Let our souls entangle, dear
Let this be the night
Thus, the stars shine in the sky
Thus, the moonstone rises high
An audience to pain's demise
Embrace your loyal knight
Gently, graze the skin with lust
You smile sweetly; vouch your trust
I then advance; a gentle thrust
A sigh of ecstasy
Tongues engage, a lustful duel
Yet, you win! Oh, how cruel...
Arch for me, my precious jewel
Be this destiny!
Eyes hold fires, raging flames
Lover's passion can't be tamed
Sinful fires! I'm not ashamed
Fury in our love!
Harsher breathing as I drive
Gods! I've never felt so alive
Our souls, now, cannot be rived
The stars envy above
Harder, deeper, slower grinds
A feeling that just blows my mind
I hiss your name and say your mine
The fire consumes us
As we thrust and grind and kiss
I call your name, everlasting mistress
You call my name in utter bliss
The climax of our lust!
A flood of light! We both explode!
We grasp each other and tightly hold!
A cry of impulse thus untold!
We collapse upon each other
Now you gently kiss my lips,
and gently, lovingly sway your hips.
I'll taste your nectar in gentle sips
We truly love one another
Disclaimer: What happens in this poem never happened to me. I only hope it one day does. This was actually a dream I had and it made an impact on me enough that I'd like to share it.

And spending a lot
Over cosmetics, costumes and gyms
Beside being on diet,
Can you define life
Without lust for any?
14.04.2007

Bodies entwined
Hearts resounding
the shivers of sweat
coming and going
Those inhibited places
opening up: slowly, gently,
delicately
losing inhibitions
new sensations
A touch here
and a touch there
smokeless fire!
A miracle invisible
to 'him and her'
Yet to You and Me
engulfed in passion
lustful love or lovable lust?
Let love be there
and lust be too
A heavenly feeling
for me and you
feel yourself and feel me too
Fantasies unfold
dreams come true
Me for You and Only You
just the way you wanted to!

Well designed hearts
In the sands in deserts
Drawn by the fingertips
Of the so-called lovers
Crossed on the curves
To stay forever together
Supposedly on the hills
Indicating infatuated manners
Devotion kindlings set fires
In the souls in return
Naked flames of romance
Which swallows faithful lovers
Blessedly eternal
May be sometimes blaze or shimmer
Brightens the life
As it rise heart horizon in heavens
Breeze waltz with grains of the sand
And flames in summers
Flames are flared
Patterns are vanished in second
Do unveil that breeze
To find its real face which differs
Its elapsing time
As imposter of wind on the earth
Passing time substantiates
love claims if real

Ignition
She had risked the fire of her face
To return to her swarm days;
She had found all the treasures
Once prized and outlived in many ways;
Are those the wings to fly?
On the day of every low!
Are the petals still there?
To spread the wings to flow!
Firearm
She is regained in the exile day.
She has fired her lust away.
A big triumph hanging in front;
A vast field ready to repay;

A Flurry of texts hot talk and sex charged environments can have adverse effect causing defects in the heart and soul lasting till you grow old regrets beget sadness that's an easy way of slipping into madness but i digress from the point of this there is none not a single reason for this a sickness so seductive never wanting to miss a second of each sweet kiss a love drunk bliss until words fly like imaginary fist's and heart's are pummeled

sail with me
on my boat to the sea
your breasts my paddles
my pelvis your floor
sail with me
in the ocean of desire
lust with me
on this little leak of my
boat to the sea
sink with me
to the deepest thoughts
of the sea
learn with me
the meaning of love
the true meaning of true love
death of desire
rising at the end
to the greater joys of foam
at the surface
the sun, the moon and then the stars

The world knows it and yet falls in this swamp,
Though knowing well one can’t come out alive;
Lust works its charms and you feel you are champ,
But stings to death like swarm of bees from hive.
Lust comes to man like dreams enjoyable too,
But leaves a tired frame and heart of guilt;
Until you fall a victim, lust holds you,
And there-after, the vice will stay in-built.
Lust blinds the eye that used to see true love,
And leaves a man both sick in mind and heart;
If not steady, it can any heart move,
And keeps the soul sinful, till you depart.
No God of love can in a soul such dwell,
Lust grows like cancer, taking soul to Hell.
6-27-2001

I care not for my Lady’s soul
Though I worship before her smile;
I care not where be my Lady’s goal
When her beauty shall lose its wile.
Low sit I down at my Lady’s feet
Gazing through her wild eyes
Smiling to think how my love will fleet
When their starlike beauty dies.
I care not if my Lady pray
To our Father which is in Heaven
But for joy my heart’s quick pulses play
For to me her love is given.
Then who shall close my Lady’s eyes
And who shall fold her hands?
Will any hearken if she cries
Up to the unknown lands?

Here is a river with a little boat
moored beside its bank. The boat's the colour
of oranges in the south of Greece, all bloody
and ripe with sweetness, while the bank's the colour
of meadows in the north of France, deep green
with a heifer's downy mane, a country rose.
Love, I shall never take you to those places.
I've squandered all my gold upon the water,
which for you mirrors the eternal sun.

THERE was a marriage-table where One sate,
Haply, unnoticed, till they craved His aid:
Thenceforward does it seem that He has made
All virtuous marriage-tables consecrate:
And so, at this, where without pomp or state
We sit, and only say, or mute, are fain
To wish the simple words 'God bless these twain!'
I think that He who 'in the midst' doth wait
Oft-times, would not abjure our prayerful cheer,
But, as at Cana, list with gracious ear
To us, beseeching, that the Love divine
May ever at their household table sit,
Make all His servants who encompass it,
And change life's bitterest waters into wine.

Is there freedom in your marriage?
Or is there bondage bringing woe
Is there freedom in your marriage?
This is what I'd like to know.
For marriage is two people
Each sharing the others love
Not telling each other how to live
Nor giving each other the shove.
For each is an individual
With free-will to be such;
Giving and receiving in their talents -
However much.
Having freedom to enjoy at times
What each may like to do;
Pleasing each other by attitude
Being happy for each too.
Standing by each other
When outsiders shoot the tongue
No matter what the cost might be
For freedom you're among.
So, is there freedom in your marriage?
I pray there is today,
For only in love's freedom -
Marriage will be for aye!

The bride delineates obedience.
As a wife, she manifests defiance.
The groom demonstrates slavery..
As a husband, he employs slavery.
16.06.2008

Should I get married? Should I be Good?
Astound the girl next door with my velvet suit and faustaus hood?
Don't take her to movies but to cemeteries
tell all about werewolf bathtubs and forked clarinets
then desire her and kiss her and all the preliminaries
and she going just so far and I understanding why
not getting angry saying You must feel! It's beautiful to feel!
Instead take her in my arms lean against an old crooked tombstone
and woo her the entire night the constellations in the sky-
When she introduces me to her parents
back straightened, hair finally combed, strangled by a tie,
should I sit knees together on their 3rd degree sofa
and not ask Where's the bathroom?
How else to feel other than I am,
often thinking Flash Gordon soap-
O how terrible it must be for a young man
seated before a family and the family thinking
We never saw him before! He wants our Mary Lou!
After tea and homemade cookies they ask What do you do for a living?
Should I tell them? Would they like me then?
Say All right get married, we're losing a daughter
but we're gaining a son-
And should I then ask Where's the bathroom?
O God, and the wedding! All her family and her friends
and only a handful of mine all scroungy and bearded
just waiting to get at the drinks and food-
And the priest! He looking at me if I masturbated
asking me Do you take this woman for your lawful wedded wife?
And I trembling what to say say Pie Glue!
I kiss the bride all those corny men slapping me on the back
She's all yours, boy! Ha-ha-ha!
And in their eyes you could see some obscene honeymoon going on-
then all that absurd rice and clanky cans and shoes
Niagara Falls! Hordes of us! Husbands! Wives! Flowers! Chocolates!
All streaming into cozy hotels
All going to do the same thing tonight
The indifferent clerk he knowing what was going to happen
The lobby zombies they knowing what
The whistling elevator man he knowing
The winking bellboy knowing
Everybody knowing! I'd be almost inclined not to do anything!
Stay up all night! Stare that hotel clerk in the eye!
Screaming: I deny honeymoon! I deny honeymoon!
running rampant into those almost climatic suites
yelling Radio belly! Cat shovel!
O I'd live in Niagara forever! in a dark cave beneath the Falls
I'd sit there the Mad Honeymooner devising ways to break marriages, a scourge of bigamy a saint of divorce-
But I should get married I should be good
How nice it'd be to come home to her
and sit by the fireplace and she in the kitchen
aproned young and lovely wanting by baby
and so happy about me she burns the roast beef
and comes crying to me and I get up from my big papa chair
saying Christmas teeth! Radiant brains! Apple deaf!
God what a husband I'd make! Yes, I should get married!
So much to do! like sneaking into Mr Jones' house late at night
and cover his golf clubs with 1920 Norwegian books
Like hanging a picture of Rimbaud on the lawnmower
like pasting Tannu Tuva postage stamps all over the picket fence
like when Mrs Kindhead comes to collect for the Community Chest
grab her and tell her There are unfavorable omens in the sky!
And when the mayor comes to get my vote tell him
When are you going to stop people killing whales!
And when the milkman comes leave him a note in the bottle
Penguin dust, bring me penguin dust, I want penguin dust-
Yet if I should get married and it's Connecticut and snow
and she gives birth to a child and I am sleepless, worn,
up for nights, head bowed against a quiet window, the past behind me,
finding myself in the most common of situations a trembling man
knowledged with responsibility not twig-smear not Roman coin soup-
O what would that be like!
Surely I'd give it for a nipple a rubber Tacitus
For a rattle bag of broken Bach records
Tack Della Francesca all over its crib
Sew the Greek alphabet on its bib
And build for its playpen a roofless Parthenon
No, I doubt I'd be that kind of father
not rural not snow no quiet window
but hot smelly New York City
seven flights up, roaches and rats in the walls
a fat Reichian wife screeching over potatoes Get a job!
And five nose running brats in love with Batman
And the neighbors all toothless and dry haired
like those hag masses of the 18th century
all wanting to come in and watch TV
The landlord wants his rent
Grocery store Blue Cross Gas & Electric Knights of Columbus
Impossible to lie back and dream Telephone snow, ghost parking-
No! I should not get married and I should never get married!
But-imagine if I were to marry a beautiful sophisticated woman
tall and pale wearing an elegant black dress and long black gloves
holding a cigarette holder in one hand and highball in the other
and we lived high up a penthouse with a huge window
from which we could see all of New York and even farther on clearer days
No I can't imagine myself married to that pleasant prison dream-
O but what about love? I forget love
not that I am incapable of love
it's just that I see love as odd as wearing shoes-
I never wanted to marry a girl who was like my mother
And Ingrid Bergman was always impossible
And there maybe a girl now but she's already married
And I don't like men and-
but there's got to be somebody!
Because what if I'm 60 years old and not married,
all alone in furnished room with pee stains on my underwear
and everybody else is married! All in the universe married but me!
Ah, yet well I know that were a woman possible as I am possible
then marriage would be possible-
Like SHE in her lonely alien gaud waiting her Egyptian lover
so I wait-bereft of 2,000 years and the bath of life.

Unwillingly ushered in a house unknown,
Saw a young lady keeping head down,
White complexioned girl with eyes brown,
Almost frozen but expressions not frown,
I was at pained to learn orthodox way,
Children still not allowed having a say,
Uncertainty more and prediction less,
What is in store only assumptions and guess?
With great courage one may ask “hello”
Limited conversation and tradition to follow,
Parents present and limited talks,
Accompany to little distance with few step walks;
I am your would be companion,
Running a shop but not a champion,
Will allow freedom that you need,
No dowry, nothing or any more greed,
“Will you marry me” simply I ask,
Rush blood on face but hide in mask,
Wait for an answer and okay the proposal,
Parents too were ready for quick disposal,
Quick come yes as no competition,
answer ready even without question,
so stage is ready for lovely meet,
parent happy and exchange greet,
Day for final count down almost arrive,
simple way to wed and not to connive,
It’s way of life and norms to follow,
promise made doesn’t seem hollow

King Suddhodana’s  selection
As wife for Siddhartha, his son,
Was Yashodhara, the princess,
The most beautiful among ladies.
Her father, King Suprabuddha,
However doubted Siddhartha,
Whether he would fight,
If a war broke out?
As Siddhartha was too soft,
Peace loving and introvert,
He, the bride’s father, so felt,
And entertained this doubt.
He held a competition
To select a suitable man
From the royal families
To marry the princess.
Among those eligible men,
Prince Siddhartha was one,
Who took up the challenge
To prove his valor and courage.
To satisfy his father’s pride,
He joined the horse ride,
And won the race at last
Reaching the target first.
Devadatta, his cousin,
Had miserably failed to win,
Though he was very keen
To claim her as his own.
The princess, with a garland,
As her final test, went round,
To select the man of her choice
From among all the princes.
Siddhartha, the winner of race,
Also was the winner of princess,
When she garlanded him
Keeping her willing eyes on him.
The marriage of the prince,
In Kapilavastu City, took place,
With all pomp and show then,
As a royal grand celebration.
The King built another palace
For the prince and princess,
In the vicinity of Himalayas,
To enjoy its soft breeze.
From the outside world,
It was well barricaded,
For the prince to remain
Attached to his domain.

THE ARGUMENT
RINTRAH roars and shakes his
fires in the burdenM air,
Hungry clouds swag on the deep.
Once meek, and in a perilous path
The just man kept his course along
The Vale of Death.
Roses are planted where thorns grow,
And on the barren heath
Sing the honey bees.
Then the perilous path was planted,
And a river and a spring
On every cliff and tomb;
5
THE MARRIAGE OF
And on the bleached bones
Red clay brought forth:
Till the villain left the paths of ease
To walk in perilous paths, and drive
The just man into barren climes.
Now the sneaking serpent walks
In mild humility ;
And the just man rages in the wilds
Where Uons roam.
Rintrah roars and shakes his fires in
the burdened air,
Hungry clouds swag on the deep.
As a new heaven is begun, and it is
now thirty-three years since its advent,
the Eternal Hell revives. And lo!
Swedenborg is the angel sitting at
the tomb: his writings are the Unen
clothes folded up. Now is the domin-
ion of Edom, and the return of Adam
into Paradise. — See Isaiah xxxiv. and
XXXV. chap.
6
HEAVEN AND HELL
Without contraries is no progres-
sion. Attraction and repulsion, rea-
son and energy, love and hate, are
necessary to human existence.
From these contraries spring what
the religious call Good and Evil.
Good is the passive that obeys reason;
Evil is the active springing from
Energy.
Good is heaven. Evil is hell.
THE MARRIAGE OF
THE VOICE OF THE DEVIL
All Bibles or sacred codes have been
the cause of the following errors : —
1. That man has two real existing
principles, viz., a Body and a Soul.
2. That Energy, called Evil, is alone
from the Body ; and that Reason, called
Good, is alone from the Soul.
3. That God will torment man in
Eternity for following his Energies.
But the following contraries to
these are true : —
1 . Man has no Body distinct from his
Soul. For that called Body is a por-
tion of Soul discerned by the five senses,
the chief inlets of Soul in this age.
2 . Energy is the only life , and is from
the Body; and Reason is the bound
or outward circumference of Energy.
8
HEAVEN AND HELL
3. Energy is Eternal Delight.
Those who restrain desire, do so
because theirs is weak enough to be
restrained; and the restrainer or
reason usurps its place and governs
the unwilling.
And being restrained, it by degrees
becomes passive, till it is only the
shadow of desire.
The history of this is written in
Paradise Lost, and the Governor or
Reason is called Messiah.
And the original Archangel or pos-
sessor of the command of the heavenly
host is called the Devil, or Satan, and
his children are called Sin and Death.
But in the book of Job, Milton's
Messiah is called Satan.
For this history has been adopted by
both parties.
It indeed appeared to Reason as if
9
THE MARRIAGE OF
desire was cast out, but the Devil's
account is, that the Messiah fell, and
formed a heaven of what he stole from
the abyss.
This is shown in the Gospel, where
he prays to the Father to send the
Comforter or desire that Reason may
have ideas to build on, the Jehovah
of the Bible being no other than he
who dwells in flaming fire. Know
that after Christ's death he became
Jehovah.
But in Milton, the Father is Destiny,
the Son a ratio of the five senses, and
the Holy Ghost vacuum !
Note. — The reason Milton wrote
in fetters when he wrote of Angels
and God, and at Uberty when of
Devils and Hell, is because he was
a true poet, and of the Devil's party
without knowing it.
10
HEAVEN AND HELL
A MEMORABLE FANCY
As I was walking among the fires
of Hell, delighted with the enjoyments
of Genius, which to Angels look like
torment and insanity, I collected some
of their proverbs, thinking that as the
sayings used in a nation mark its
character, so the proverbs of Hell show
the nature of infernal wisdom better
than any description of buildings or
garments.
When I came home, on the abyss
of the five senses, where a flat-sided
steep frowns over the present world, I
saw a mighty Devil folded in black
clouds hovering on the sides of the
rock; with corroding fires he wrote
the following sentence now perceived
by the minds of men, and read by
them on earth : —
II
THE MARRIAGE OF
'How do you know but every bird
that cuts the airy way
Is an immense world of delight,
closed by your senses five?'
12
HEAVEN AND HELL
PROVERBS OF HELL
In seed-time learn, in harvest teach,
in winter enjoy.
Drive your cart and your plough
over the bones of the dead.
The road of excess leads to the
palace of wisdom.
Prudence is a rich ugly old maid
courted by Incapacity.
He who desires, but acts not, breeds
pestilence.
The cut worm forgives the plough.
Dip him in the river who loves
water.
A fool sees not the same tree that a
wise man sees.
He whose face gives no light shall
never become a star.
13
THE MARRIAGE OF
Eternity is in love with the produc-
tions of time.
The busy bee has no time for sor-
row.
The hours of folly are measured by
the clock, but of wisdom no clock can
measure.
All wholesome food is caught with-
out a net or a trap.
Bring out number, weight, and
measure in a year of dearth.
No bird soars too high if he soars
with his own wings.
A dead body revenges not injuries.
The most sublime act is to set an-
other before you.
If the fool would persist in his folly
he would become wise.
Folly is the cloak of knavery.
Shame is Pride's cloak.
14
HEAVEN AND HELL
Prisons are built with stones of law,
brothels with bricks of religion.
The pride of the peacock is the
glory of God.
The lust of the goat is the bounty
of God.
The wrath of the lion is the wisdom
of God.
The nakedness of woman is the
work of God.
Excess of sorrow laughs, excess of
joy weeps.
The roaring of lions, the howling of
wolves, the raging of the stormy sea,
and the destructive sword, are por-
tions of Eternity too great for the eye
of man.
The fox condemns the trap, not
himself.
Joys impregnate, sorrows bring
forth.
15
THE MARRIAGE OF
Let man wear the fell of the lion,
woman the fleece of the sheep.
The bird a nest, the spider a web,
man friendship.
The selfish smiling fool and the
sullen frowning fool shall be both
thought wise that they may be a rod.
What is now proved was once only
imagined.
The rat, the mouse, the fox, the
rabbit watch the roots; the Hon, the
tiger, the horse, the elephant watch
the fruits.
The cistern contains, the fountain
overflows.
One thought fills immensity.
Always be ready to speak your
mind, and a base man will avoid you.
Everything possible to be believed
is an image of truth.
The eagle never lost so much time
z6
HEAVEN AND HELL
as when he submitted to learn of the
crow.
The fox provides for himself, but
God provides for the lion.
Think in the morning, act in the
noon, eat in the evening, sleep in the
night.
He who has suffered you to impose
on him knows you.
As the plough follows words, so
God rewards prayers.
The tigers of wrath are wiser than
the horses of instruction.
Expect poison from the standing
water.
You never know what is enough
unless you know what is more than
enough.
Listen to the fool's reproach; it is a
kingly title.
The eyes of fire, the nostrils of air,
17
THE MARRIAGE OF
the mouth of water, the beard of
earth.
The weak in courage is strong in
cunning.
The apple tree never asks the beech
how he shall grow, nor the lion the
horse how he shall take his prey.
The thankful receiver bears a plenti-
ful harvest.
If others had not been foolish we
should have been so.
The soul of sweet delight can never
be defiled.
When thou seest an eagle, thou
seest a portion of Genius. Lift up thy
head!
As the caterpillar chooses the fairest
leaves to lay her eggs on, so the priest
lays his curse on the fairest joys.
To create a little flower is the labour
of ages.
i8
HEAVEN AND HELL
Damn braces; bless relaxes.
The best wine is the oldest, the best
water the newest.
Prayers plough not; praises reap
not; joys laugh not; sorrows weep
not.
The head Sublime, the heart Pathos,
the genitals Beauty, the hands and
feet Proportion.
As the air to a bird, or the sea
to a fish, so is contempt to the con-
temptible.
The crow wished everything was
black; the owl that everything was
white.
Exuberance is Beauty.
If the lion was advised by the fox,
he would be cunning.
Improvement makes straight roads,
but the crooked roads without Improve-
ment are roads of Genius.
19
THE MARRIAGE OF
Sooner murder an infant in its
cradle than nurse unacted desires.
Where man is not, nature is barren.
Truth can never be told so as to be
understood and not to be believed.
Enough! or Too much.
The ancient poets animated all sen-
sible objects with Gods or Geniuses,
calling them by the names and adorn-
ing them with properties of woods,
rivers, mountains, lakes, cities, na-
tions, and whatever their enlarged
and numerous senses could perceive.
And particularly they studied the
Genius of each city and country,
placing it under its mental deity. Till
a system was formed, which some
took advantage of and enslaved the
vulgar by attempting to realize or
abstract the mental deities from their
objects. Thus began Priesthood.
20
HEAVEN AND HELL
Choosing forms of worship from
poetic tales. And at length they pro-
nounced that the Gods had ordered
such things. Thus men forgot that
all deities reside in the human breast.
21
THE MARRIAGE OF
A MEMORABLE FANCY
The Prophets Isaiah and Ezekiel
dined with me, and I asked them how
they dared so roundly to assert that
God spoke to them, and whether they
did not think at the time that they
would be misunderstood, and so be
the cause of imposition.
Isaiah answered: 'I saw no God,
nor heard any, in a finite organical
perception: but my senses discovered
the infinite in everything; and as I
was then persuaded, and remained
confirmed, that the voice of honest
indignation is the voice of God, I cared
not for consequences, but wrote.'*
Then I asked: 'Does a firm per-
suasion that a thing is so, make it
so?'
He replied: 'All poets believe that
22
HEAVEN AND HELL
it does, and in ages of imagination
this firm persuasion removed moun-
tains; but many are not capable of a
firm persuasion of anything.'
Then Ezekiel said : ' The philosophy
of the East taught the first principles
of human perception; some nations
held one principle for the origin, and
some another. We of Israel taught
that the Poetic Genius (as you now
call it) was the first principle, and all
the others merely derivative, which
was the cause of our despising the
Priests and Philosophers of other
countries, and prophesying that all
Gods would at last be proved to origi-
nate in ours, and to be the tributaries
of the Poetic Genius. It was this that
our great poet King David desired so
fervently, and invokes so pathetically,
saying by this he conquers enemies
and governs kingdoms; and we so
loved our Ggd that we cursed in His
i3
THE MARRIAGE OF
name all the deities of surrounding
nations, and asserted that they had
rebelled. From these opinions the
vulgar came to think that all nations
would at last be subject to the Jews.
'This,' said he, 'like all firm per-
suasions, is come to pass, for all
nations believe the Jews' code, and
worship the Jews' God; and what
greater subjection can be?'
I heard this with some wonder, and
must confess my own conviction.
After dinner I asked Isaiah to favour
the world with his lost works; he said
none of equal value was lost. Ezekiel
said the same of his.
I also asked Isaiah what made him
go naked and barefoot three years.
He answered: 'The same that made
our friend Diogenes the Grecian.'
I then asked Ezekiel why he ate
dung, and lay so long on his right and
24
HEAVEN AND HELL
left side. He answered: 'The desire
of raising other men into a perception
of the infinite. This the North Ameri-
can tribes practise. And is he honest
who resists his genius or conscience,
only for the sake of present ease or
gratification?'
The ancient tradition that the world
will be consumed in fire at the end of
six thousand years is true, as I have
heard from Hell.
For the cherub with his flaming
sword is hereby commanded to leave
his guard at [the] tree of life, and
when he does, the whole creation will
be consumed and appear infinite and
holy, whereas it now appears finite
and corrupt.
This will come to pass by an im-
provement of sensual enjoyment.
But first the notion that man has
25
THE MARRIAGE OF
a body distinct from his soul is to be
expunged; this I shall do by printing
in the infernal method by corrosives,
which in Hell are salutary and medici-
nal, melting apparent surfaces away,
and displaying the infinite which was
hid.
If the doors of perception were
cleansed everything would appear to
man as it is, infinite.
For man has closed himself up, till
he sees all things through narrow
chinks of his cavern.
26
HEAVEN AND HELL
A MEMORABLE FANCY
I was in a printing-house in Hell,
and saw the method in which knowl-
edge is transmitted from generation
to generation.
In the first chamber was a dragon-
man, clearing away the rubbish from
a cave's mouth; within, a number of
dragons were hollowing the cave.
In the second chamber was a viper
folding round the rock and the cave,
and others adorning it with gold, silver,
and precious stones.
In the third chamber was an eagle
with wings and feathers of air; he
caused the inside of the cave to be
infinite; around were numbers of
eagle-like men, who built palaces in
the immense cliffs.
In the fourth chamber were lions
27
THE MARRIAGE OF
of flaming fire raging around and
melting the metals into living fluids.
In the fifth chamber were unnamed
forms, which cast the metals into the
expanse.
There they were received by men
who occupied the sixth chamber, and
took the forms of books, and were
arranged in libraries.
The Giants who formed this world
into its sensual existence and now
seem to live in it in chains are in
truth the causes of its life and the
sources of all activity, but the chains
are the cunning of weak and tame
minds, which have power to resist
energy, according to the proverb,
'The weak in courage is strong in
cunning.'
Thus one portion of being is the
28
HEAVEN AND HELL
Prolific, the other the Devouring. To
the devourer it seems as if the pro-
ducer was in his chains; but it is not
so, he only takes portions of existence,
and fancies that the whole.
But the Prolific would cease to be
prolific unless the Devourer as a sea
received the excess of his delights.
Some will say, 'Is not God alone
the Prolific?' I answer: 'God only
acts and is in existing beings or
men.'
These two classes of men are always
upon earth, and they should be ene-
mies: whoever tries to reconcile them
seeks to destroy existence.
Religion is an endeavour to recon-
cile the two.
Note. — Jesus Christ did not wish
to unite but to separate them, as in
the parable of sheep and goats; and
29
THE MARRIAGE OF
He says : ' I came not to send peace,
but a sword.'
Messiah, or Satan, or Tempter, was
formerly thought to be one of the
antediluvians who are our Energies.
30
HEAVEN AND HELL
A MEMORABLE FANCY
An Angel came to me and said: '0
pitiable foolish young man! hor-
rible, dreadful state! Consider the
hot burning dungeon thou art prepar-
ing for thyself to all Eternity, to which
thou art going in such career.'
I said : ' Perhaps you will be willing
to show me my eternal lot, and we
will contemplate together upon it, and
see whether your lot or mine is most
desirable.'*
So he took me through a stable, and
through a church, and down into the
church vault, at the end of v/hich was
a mill; through the mill we went, and
came to a cave; down the winding
cavern we groped our tedious way,
till a void boundless as a nether sky
appeared beneath us, and we held by
31
THE MARRIAGE OF
the roots of trees, and hung over this
immensity; but I said: 'If you please,
we will commit ourselves to this void,
and see whether Providence is here
also; if you will not, I will.' But he
answered : ' Do not presume, young
man; but as we here remain, behold
thy lot, which will soon appear when
the darkness passes away.'
So I remained with him sitting in
the twisted root of an oak; he was
suspended in a fungus, which hung
with the head downward into the
deep.
By degrees we beheld the infinite
abyss, fiery as the smoke of a burning
city; beneath us at an immense dis-
tance was the sun, black but shining;
round it were fiery tracks on which
revolved vast spiders, crawling after
their prey, which flew, or rather
swum, in the infinite deep, in the most
32
HEAVEN AND HELL
terrific shapes of animals sprung from
corruption; and the air was full of
them, and seemed composed of them.
These are Devils, and are called powers
of the air. I now asked my com-
panion which was my eternal lot.
He said: 'Between the black and
white spiders.''
But now, from between the black
and white spiders, a cloud and fire
burst and rolled through the deep,
blackening all beneath so that the
nether deep grew black as a sea, and
rolled with a terrible noise. Beneath
us was nothing now to be seen but a
black tempest, till looking East be-
tween the clouds and the waves, we
saw a cataract of blood mixed with
fire, and not many stones' throw from
us appeared and sunk again the scaly
fold of a monstrous serpent. At last
to the East, distant about three degrees,
appeared a fiery crest above the waves ;
33
THE MARRIAGE OF
slowly it reared like a ridge of golden
rocks, till we discovered two globes
of crimson fire, from which the sea
fled away in clouds of smoke; and
now we saw it was the head of Le-
viathan. His forehead was divided
into streaks of green and purple, like
those on a tiger's forehead; soon we
saw his mouth and red gills hang just
above the raging foam, tinging the
black deeps with beams of blood, ad-
vancing toward us with all the fury
of a spiritual existence.
My friend the Angel climbed up
from his station into the mill. I
remained alone, and then this ap-
pearance was no more; but I found
myself sitting on a pleasant bank beside
a river by moonlight, hearing a harper
who sung to the harp; and his theme
was: 'The man who never alters his
opinion is like standing water, and
breeds reptiles of the mind.'
34
HEAVEN AND HELL
But I arose, and sought for the
mill, and there I found my Angel,
who, surprised, asked me how I
escaped.
I answered: 'All that we saw was
owing to your metaphysics; for when
you ran away, I found myself on a
bank by moonlight, hearing a harper.
But now we have seen my eternal
lot, shall I show you yours?' He
laughed at my proposal; but I by
force suddenly caught him in my
arms, and flew Westerly through the
night, till we were elevated above the
earth's shadow; then I flung myself
with him directly into the body of the
sun; here I clothed myself in white,
and taking in my hand Swedenborg*s
volumes, sunk from the glorious clime,
and passed all the planets till we came
to Saturn. Here I stayed to rest, and
then leaped into the void between
Saturn and the fixed stars.
35
THE MARRIAGE OF
'Here,' said I, 'is your lot; in this
space, if space it may be called.'
Soon we saw the stable and the church,
and I took him to the altar and opened
the Bible, and lo! it was a deep pit,
into which I descended, driving the
Angel before me. Soon we saw seven
houses of brick. One we entered. In
it were a number of monkeys, baboons,
and all of that species, chained by the
middle, grinning and snatching at one
another, but withheld by the shortness
of their chains. However, I saw that
they sometimes grew numerous, and
then the weak were caught by the
strong, and with a grinning aspect,
first coupled with and then devoured
by plucking off first one Umb and then
another till the body was left a help-
less trunk; this, after grinning and
kissing it with seeming fondness, they
devoured too. And here and there I
saw one savourily picking the fiesh off
36
HEAVEN AND HELL
his own tail. As the stench terribly
annoyed us both, we went into the
mill; and I in my hand brought the
skeleton of a body, which in the mill
was Aristotle's Analytics.
So the Angel said; 'Thy phantasy
has imposed upon me, and thou ought-
est to be ashamed.'
I answered: 'We impose on one
another, and it is but lost time to con-
verse with you whose works are only
Analytics.'*
'I have always found that Angels
have the vanity to speak of them-
selves as the only wise; this they do
with a confident insolence sprouting
from systematic reasoning.
'Thus Swedenborg boasts that what
he writes is new ; though it is only the
contents or index of already published
books.
37
THE MARRIAGE OF
'A man carried a monkey about
for a show, and because he was a Uttle
wiser than the monkey, grew vain,
and conceived himself as much wiser
than seven men. It is so with
Swedenborg; he shows the folly of
churches, and exposes hypocrites, till
he imagines that all are religious, and
himself the single one on earth that
ever broke a net.
'Now hear a plain fact: Sweden-
borg has not written one new truth.
Now hear another: he has written all
the old falsehoods.
'And now hear the reason: he con-
versed with Angels who are all re-
ligious, and conversed not with Devils
who all hate reUgion, for he was
incapable through his conceited no-
tions.
'Thus Swedenborg's writings are
a recapitulation of all superficial
38
HEAVEN AND HELL
opinions, and an analysis of the more
sublime, but no further.
'Have now another plain fact: any
man of mechanical talents may from
the writings of Paracelsus or Jacob
Behmen produce ten thousand volumes
of equal value with Swedenborg's, and
from those of Dante or Shakespeare an
infinite number.
'But when he has done this, let
him not say that he knows better than
his master, for he only holds a candle
in sunshine.'
39
THE MARRIAGE OF
A MEMORABLE FANCY
Once I saw a Devil in a flame of
fire, who arose before an Angel that
sat on a cloud, and the Devil uttered
these words: 'The worship of God is,
honouring His gifts in other men each
according to his genius, and loving
the greatest men best. Those who
envy or calumniate great men hate
God, for there is no other God.'
The Angel hearing this became
almost blue, but mastering himself he
grew yellow, and at last white-pink
and smiling, and then replied: 'Thou
idolater, is not God One? and is not
He visible in Jesus Christ? and has
not Jesus Christ given His sanction to
the law of ten commandments? and
are not all other men fools, sinners,
and nothings?'
40
HEAVEN AND HELL
The Devil answered: 'Bray a fool
in a mortar with wheat, yet shall not
his folly be beaten out of him. If
Jesus Christ is the greatest man, you
ought to love Him in the greatest
degree. Now hear how He has given
His sanction to the law of ten com-
mandments. Did He not mock at the
Sabbath, and so mock the Sabbath's
God? murder those who were mur-
dered because of Him? turn away the
law from the woman taken in adultery,
steal the labour of others to support
Him? bear false witness when He
omitted making a defence before
Pilate? covet when He prayed for His
disciples, and when He bid them
shake off the dust of their feet against
such as refused to lodge them? I tell
you, no virtue can exist without break-
ing these ten commandments. Jesus
was all virtue, and acted from im-
pulse, not from rules.'
41
THE MARRIAGE OF
When he had so spoken, I beheld
the Angel, who stretched out his arms
embracing the flame of fire, and he
was consumed, and arose as Elijah.
Note. — This Angel, who is now
become a Devil, is my particular
friend; we often read the Bible to-
gether in its infernal or diabolical
sense, which the world shall have if
they behave well.
I have also the Bible of Hell, which
the world shall have whether they
will or no.
One law for the lion and ox is Op-
pression.
42
HEAVEN AND HELL
A SONG OF LIBERTY
1. The Eternal Female groan'd; it
was heard over all the earth:
2. Albion's coast is sick silent; the
American meadows faint.
3. Shadows of prophecy shiver
along by the lakes and the rivers, and
mutter across the ocean. France,
rend down thy dungeon!
4. Golden Spain, burst the barriers
of old Rome !
5. Cast thy keys, Rome, into
the deep — down falling, even to
eternity down falling;
6. And weep!
7. In her trembling hands she took
the new-born terror, howling.
8. On those infinite mountains
of light now barr'd out by the Atlantic
43
THE MARRIAGE OF
sea, the new-born fire stood before the
starry king.
9. Flagg'd with grey-browM snows
and thunderous visages, the jealous
wings wavM over the deep.
10. The speary hand burn'd aloft;
unbuckled was the shield; forth went
the hand of jealousy among the flam-
ing hair, and hurl'd the new-born
wonder through the starry night.
11. The fire, the fire is falling !
12. Look up! look up! citizen
of London, enlarge thy countenance!
O Jew, leave counting gold; return to
thy oil and wine! African, black
African! (Go, winged thought, widen
his forehead.)
13. The fiery limbs, the flaming hair
shot like the sinking sun into the
Western sea.
14. WakM from his eternal sleep,
the hoary element roaring fled away.
44
HEAVEN AND HELL
15. Down rush'd, beating his wings
in vain, the jealous king, his grey-
brow'd councillors, thunderous war-
riors, curl'd veterans, among helms
and shields, and chariots, horses, ele-
phants, banners, castles, slings, and
rocks.
16. Falling, rushing, ruining;
buried in the ruins, on Urthona's
dens.
17. All night beneath the ruins;
then their sullen flames, faded, emerge
round the gloomy king.
18. With thunder and fire, leading
his starry hosts through the waste
wilderness, he promulgates his ten
commandments, glancing his beamy
eyelids over the deep in dark dismay.
19. Where the Son of Fire in his
Eastern cloud, while the Morning
plumes her golden breast,
20. Spuming the clouds written
45
THE MARRIAGE OF
with curses, stamps the stony law to
dust, loosing the eternal horses from
the dens of night, crying: 'Empire is
no more! and now the lion and wolf
shall cease.'
46
HEAVEN AND HELL
CHORUS
Let the Priests of the Raven of
Dawn, no longer in deadly black, with
hoarse note curse the Sons of Joy.
Nor his accepted brethren whom,
tyrant, he calls free, lay the bound or
build the roof. Nor pale religious
lechery call that virginity that wishes,
but acts not !
For everything that lives is holy.
47

song Fauc1
First.
[Chorus. Endymion. Luna.]
Chorus.
Th' Astrologers own Eyes are set,
And even Wolves the Sheep forget;
Only this Shepherd, late and soon,
Upon this Hill outwakes the Moon.
Heark how he sings, with sad delight,
Thorough the clear and silent Night.
Endymion
Cynthia, O Cynthia, turn thine Ear,
nor scorn Endymions plaints to hear.
As we our Flocks, so you command
The fleecy Clouds with silver wand.
Cynthia
If thou a Mortal, rather sleep;
Or if a Shepherd, watch thy Sheep.
Endmymion
The Shepherd, since he saw thine Eyes,
And Sheep are both thy Sacrifice.
Nor merits he a Mortal's name,
That burns with an immortal Flame.
Cynthia
I have enough for me to do,
Ruling the Waves that Ebb and Flow.
Endymion
Since thou disdain'st not then to share
On Sublunary things thy Care;
Rather restrain these double Seas,
Mine Eyes uncessant deluges.
Cynthia
My wakeful Lamp all night must move,
Securing their Repose above.
Endymion
If therefore thy resplendent Ray
Can make a Night more bright then Day;
Shine thorough this obscurer Brest,
With shades of deep Despair opprest.
Chorus.
Courage, Endymion, boldly Woo,
Anchises was a Shepheard too:
Yet is her younger Sister laid
Sporting with him in Ida's shade:
And Cynthia, though the strongest,
Seeks but the honour to have held out longest.
Endymion
Here unto Latmos Top I climbe:
How far below thine Orbe sublime?
O why, as well as Eyes to see,
Have I not Armes that reach to thee?
Cynthia
'Tis needless then that I refuse,
Would you but your own Reason use.
Endymion
Though I so high may not pretend,
It is the same so you descend.
Cynthia
These Stars would say I do them wrong,
Rivals each one for thee too strong.
Endymion
The Stars are fix'd unto their Sphere,
And cannot, though they would, come near.
Less Loves set of each others praise,
While Stars Eclypse by mixing Rayes.
Cynthia
That Cave is dark.
Endymion
Then none can spy:
Or shine Thou there and 'tis the Sky.
Chorus.
Joy to Endymion,
For he has Cynthia's favour won.
And Jove himself approves
With his serenest influence their Loves.
For he did never love to pair
His Progeny above the Air;
But to be honest, valiant, wise,
Makes Mortals matches fit for Deityes.
song Fauc2
Second Song.
[Hobbinol. Phillis. Tomalin.]
Hobbinol
Phillis, Tomalin, away:
Never such a merry day.
For the Northern Shepheards Son
Has Menalca's daughter won.
Phillis
Stay till I some flow'rs ha'ty'd
In a Garland for the Bride.
Tomalin
If Thou would'st a Garland bring,
Philiis you may wait the Spring:
They ha' chosen such an hour
When She is the only flow'r.
Phillis
Let's not then at least be seen
Without each a Sprig of Green.
Hobbinol
Fear not; at Menalca's Hall
There is Bayes enough for all.
He when Young as we did graze,
But when Old he planted Bayes.
Tomalin
Here She comes; but with a Look
Far more catching then my Hook.
'Twas those Eyes, I now dare swear,
Led our Lambs we knew not where.
Hobbinol
Not our Lambs own Fleeces are
Curl'd so lovely as her Hair:
Nor our Sheep new Wash'd can be
Half so white or sweet as She.
Phillis
He so looks as fit to keep
Somewhat else then silly Sheep.
Hobbinol
Come, lets in some Carol new
Pay to Love and Them their due.
All.
Joy to that happy Pair,
Whose Hopes united banish our Despair.
What Shepheard could for Love pretend,
Whil'st all the Nymphs on Damon's choice attend?
What Shepherdess could hope to wed
Before Marina's turn were sped?
Now lesser Beauties may take place,
And meaner Virtues come in play;
While they,
Looking from high,
Shall grace
Our Flocks and us with a propitious Eye.
But what is most, the gentle Swain
No more shall need of Love complain;
But Virtue shall be Beauties hire,
And those be equal that have equal Fire.
Or who despair, now Damon does enjoy?
Marina yields. Who dares be coy?
Joy to that happy Pair,
Whose Hopes united banish our Despair.

dry grass prickles my feet,
9 years old ignorant toward
the feeling that paralyzes my heart,
creates a lump in my throat-
close my eyes and cover my ears
(hear no evil)
I can pretend I don't actually know
she's dying-
I sit criss-crossed in the dirt-
a crooked wind bends the grains,
shivers the skeleton inside my skin.
going against my inner fear
I call to her,
is she able to hear me
above the sounds of her dying hymns.
then I come to her,
as if it were a dream-
she looks far beyond her years,
though I know her well;
I know of her light,
I know of her faith,
but I know not of her death.
too young to understand,
an indifference-
she walks to meet God
in her garden, and I follow
(too closely)
she says she needs time
alone to write her thoughts-
and I wonder if I'm in them.

Four ducks on a pond,
A grass-bank beyond,
A blue sky of spring,
White clouds on the wing;
What a little thing
To remember for years-
To remember with tears!

DEAR SHADE OF HIM, who grac'd the mimick scene,
And charm'd attention with resistless pow'r;
Whose wond'rous art, whose fascinating mien,
Gave glowing rapture to the short-liv'd hour!
Accept the mournful verse, the ling'ring sigh,
The tear that faithful Mem'ry stays to shed;
The SACRED TEAR, that from Reflection's eye,
Drops on the ashes of the sainted dead.
Lov'd by the grave, and courted by the young,
In social comforts eminently blest;
All hearts rever'd the precepts of thy tongue,
And Envy's self thy eloquence confess'd.
Who could like thee the soul's wild tumults paint,
Or wake the torpid ear with lenient art?
Touch the nice sense with pity's dulcet plaint,
Or soothe the sorrows of the breaking heart?
Who can forget thy penetrating eye,
The sweet bewitching smile, th' empassion'd look?
The clear deep whisper, the persuasive sigh,
The feeling tear that Nature's language spoke?
Rich in each treasure bounteous Heaven could lend,
For private worth distinguish'd and approv'd,
The pride of WISDOM,­VIRTUE's darling friend,
By MANSFIELD honor'd­and by CAMDEN lov'd!
The courtier's cringe, the flatt'rer's abject smile,
The subtle arts of well-dissembled praise,
Thy soul abhorr'd;­above the gloss of guile,
Truth lead thy steps, and Friendship crown'd thy days.
Oft in thy HAMPTON's dark embow'ring shade
The POET's hand shall sweep the trembling string;
While the proud tribute §to thy mem'ry paid,
The voice of GENIUS on the gale shall fling.
Yes, SHERIDAN! thy soft melodious verse
Still vibrates on a nation's polish'd ear;
Fondly it hover'd o'er the sable hearse,
Hush'd the loud plaint, and triumph'd in a tear.
In life united by congenial minds,
Dear to the MUSE, to sacred friendship true;
Around her darling's urn a wreath SHE binds,
A deathless wreath­immortaliz'd by YOU!
But say, dear shade, is kindred mem'ry flown?
Has widow'd love at length forgot to weep?
That no kind verse, or monumental stone,
Marks the lone spot where thy cold relics sleep!
Dear to a nation, grateful to thy muse,
That nation's tears upon thy grave shall flow,
For who the gentle tribute can refuse,
Which thy fine feeling gave to fancied woe?
Thou who, by many an anxious toilsome hour,
Reap'd the bright harvest of luxuriant Fame,
Who snatch'd from dark oblivion's barb'rous pow'r
The radiant glories of a SHAKSPERE's name!
Rembrance oft shall paint the mournful scene
Where the slow fun'ral spread its length'ning gloom,
Where the deep murmur, and dejected mien,
In artless sorrow linger'd round thy tomb.
And tho' no laurel'd bust, or labour'd line,
Shall bid the passing stranger stay to weep;
Thy SHAKSPERE's hand shall point the hallow'd shrine,
And Britain's genius with thy ashes sleep.
Then rest in peace, O ever sacred shade!
Your kindred souls exulting FAME shall join;
And the same wreath thy hand for SHAKSPERE made,
Gemm'd with her tears about THY GRAVE SHALL TWINE.

When snow like sheep lay in the fold
And wind went begging at each door,
And the far hills were blue with cold,
And a cloud shroud lay on the moor,
She kept the siege.  And every day
We watched her brooding over death
Like a strong bird above its prey.
The room filled with the kettle's breath.
Damp curtains glued against the pane
Sealed time away.  Her body froze
As if to freeze us all, and chain
Creation to a stunned repose.
She died before the world could stir.
In March the ice unloosed the brook
And water ruffled the sun's hair.
Dead cones upon the alder shook.

"Fate snatch'd him early to the pitying sky."
- POPE.
IF WORTH, too early to the grave consign'd,
Can claim the pitying tear, or touch the mind ?
If manly sentiments unstain'd by art,
Could waken FRIENDSHIP, or delight the heart ?
Ill-fated youth ! to THEE the MUSE shall pay
The last sad tribute of a mournful lay;
On thy lone grave shall MAY'S soft dews be shed,
And fairest flowrets blossom o'er thy head;
The drooping lily, and the snow-drop pale,
Mingling their fragrant leaves, shall there recline,
While CHERUBS hov'ring on th' ethereal gale,
Shall chaunt a requiem o'er the hallow'd shrine.
And if Reflection's piercing eye should scan
The trivial frailties of imperfect MAN;
If in thy generous heart those passions dwelt,
Which all should own, and all that live have felt;
Yet was thy polish'd mind so pure, so brave,
The young admir'd thee, and the old forgave.
And when stern FATE, with ruthless rancour, press'd
Thy withering graces to her flinty breast;
Bright JUSTICE darted from her bless'd abode,
And bore thy VIRTUES to the throne of GOD;
While cold OBLIVION stealing o'er thy mind,
Each youthful folly to the grave consign'd.
O, if thy purer spirit deigns to know
Each thought that passes in this vale of woe,
Accept the incense of a tender tear,
By PITY wafted on a sigh sincere.
And if the weeping MUSE a wreath could give
To grace thy tomb, and bid thy VIRTUES live;
THEN Wealth should blush the gilded mask to wear,
And Avarice shrink the victim of Despair.
While GENIUS bending o'er thy sable bier,
Should mourn her darling SON with many a tear,
While in her pensive form the world should view
The ONLY PARENT that thy SORROWS knew.

you've been gone for quite some time
but the memory of you still lives on
it seems just like yesterday you left
my heart can still feel the pain
every birthday
every holiday
i wish i could spend with you
like the many years before
now i can only share these days with
the memory of your hugs
your voice
the memory of you
i still cry at night
as i think of the past
of all the memories we had
even the ones that were once so faint
they stand out more than ever
you've been gone for quite some time
but the memory of you still lives on
with me!

ONE had a lovely face,
And two or three had charm,
But charm and face were in vain
Because the mountain grass
Cannot but keep the form
Where the mountain hare has lain.

So bends beneath the storm yon balmy flow'r,
Whose spicy blossoms once perfum'd the gale;
So press'd with tears reclines yon lily pale,
Obedient to the rude and beating show'r.
Still is the LARK, that hov'ring o'er yon spray,
With jocund carol usher'd in the morn;
And mute the NIGHTINGALE, whose tender lay
Melted the feeling mind with sounds forlorn:
More sweet, MARIA, was thy plaintive strain!
That strain is o'er; but mem'ry ne'er shall fade,
When erst it cheer'd grey twilight's dreary shade,
And charm'd the sorrow-stricken soul from pain;
STILL, STILL, melodious maid, thy dulcet song
Shall breathe, immortal, on an ANGEL'S TONGUE!

Petals torn from faded roses,
Memories stored in jars.
Photographs with different poses,
To worship from afar.
Love has gone from her heart,
Sadness fills his soul.
What of the vow to never part?
To live two lives, as a whole?
Emptiness fills the days,
Loneliness the nights.
Through teary eyes filled with haze,
She remembers all their fights.
What of the love they shared?
Could it be it's only hiding?
Or has it simply disappeared,
from lack of simple trying?
It seems a waste, an awful shame,
That love should part,
Just as it came...
With very little effort.
Let's raise a glass-
To the memory of love.

Mirror, mirror on the wall,
Where are you hiding me?
That face is not the one I recall.
It’s not the me I seem to be.
Forget that school reunion picture.
I’m not the fella standing there.
Who could all those others be?
Where is Joe and Fred, with their hair?
Could that be Bill and Paul?
So many I never saw.
Could it be we were classmates once?
I feel like such a dunce.
Mirror, mirror on the wall.
Why can’t you hide the years?
A crack now in your face appears.
My memory is cracking too I fear.
June 15,2006

Mirror Reflections
Only with your permission can
Tell a little white lie

I see under myself,
In the acrylic mirror.
Expressionless portrait
Of sorrow and wonderment
Artistic beauty of self expression.
Picasso-ish,
Contemplations of self
Breathing out obsessions
Unspoken words being heard, and
Thoughts being felt.
Between the lines I see
A façade of Truth
Contrast and color,
Painting the knowledge within.
Withering traditions,
Confessions tell
Of being strangers to ourselves.

Mirror, Mirror on the wall,
I look into every day, but now I see someone I don't know at all!
When I was young,
I remebered,
I would look for hours.
Now, as I grow older,
My face appears as ugly and dry as wilted flowers.
My wrinkles grow longer
And I spend much less
Time in front of you,
When I do,
I'm so blue.
You see, you can really tell I'm not as much of a Man as I once was,
It is hard to say,
But a plain fact,
As our body's fall apart,
We fight back.
We fight back with dyes, creams and powders,
Even some try selective operations to retard age,
Oh how wise is such a sage.
If the desired result it stop the process,
Who among us willing to start.
What is would take is implied consent,
You must give in and lament.
You no longer must linger,
Where you once did,
And if you do,
You can make a bet
That this too will be a great lament.

nature gives
to me a piece of
merrier self
and from there
it claims a piece
of merrier self

Mirror, Mirror on the wall
Will i take that fall
Should i try or would it b better 2 say good-bye
Mirror, Mirror on the wall
I don't think i like who i c at all
I c a tear streaked face, and someone who wants so many
things 2 take place
Mirror, Mirror what is fair
Y do i even care
I should just walk away and save the pain 4 another day
Mirror, Mirror set me free
Let me become the person i long 2 b
Mirror, Mirror on the wall
I want 2 become strong and stand tall
Help me if u can, try and lend me a hand
Mirror, Mirror on the wall

I loved you once, you took me in
With chubby cheeks you made me grin
I love you for you give me back
Without hiding in your sack
Once I found you in  my teens
Made me pretty, all my means
Found you grow me all seasons
Nature filling moons and suns
For some time you missed me there
Then I found me missing here
Dancing I was with my dear
Lust and love, hai! keep me cheer
You made me reflect without mask
All these questions may I ask
Without answer you showed me
Wife and mother I can be
With grey hair I thought wisdom come
Grey hair did not make wise some
Wisdom gained, I found me failed
Oh! Mirror, can you make me resolved
I thought you keep me all absorbed
Without letting time involved
But, I found in you me sold
Once decked with a speck of gold

With inside out, and out, surprised, inside!
When penning verse whose end may, too, begin it,
When rhyming reel with real can coincide
Yours is the world and everything that’s in it
If you can write without cash motivation,
Self-righteousness avoiding like the plague,
Create consensus round an innovation
Embraced by all without appearing vague.
If you can scan, span logic to emotion
Set constant course from vested interests clear,
If you can ban all untoward commotion,
While conscience clings to all that it holds dear,
If rhymes may improvise, spurn prose redrafted,
Communication keyed to catalyze,
You'll find to your surprise that you have rafted
On stream it seems when wit reverse dream tries
----
On stream it seems when wit reverse dream tries
You'll find to your surprise that you have rafted
Communication keyed to catalyze,
If rhyme may improvise, spurn prose redrafted
While conscience clings to all that it holds dear.
If you can ban all untoward commotion,
Set constant course from vested interests clear.
If you can scan span logic to emotion
Embraced by all without appearing vague,
Create consensus round an innovation,
Self-righteousness avoiding like the plague,
If you can write without cash motivation,
Your's is the world and everything that’s in it
When rhyming reel with real can coincide
When penning verse whose end may, too, begin it,
With inside out, and out, surprised, inside!

EARLY one day, the Muse, when eagerly bent on adornment,
Follow'd a swift-running streamlet, the quietest nook by it seeking.
Quickly and noisily flowing, the changeful surface distorted
Ever her moving form; the goddess departed in anger.
Yet the stream call'd mockingly after her, saying: "What, truly!
Wilt thou not view, then, the truth, in my mirror so clearly depicted?"
But she already was far away, on the brink of the ocean,
In her figure rejoicing, and duly arranging her garland.

You look good and you know it too
Why no one is as pretty as you
You bought yourself a new car,
Fancy clothes, going to the bar.
High heel shoes, elegant jewels
Ready to party, no hard rules
You think you’re full of class
Your money says it’s so
Always on the go, spending that money
Well just remember this honey
Money can’t buy you class, happiness or respect
Not knowing what you’re doing, be careful what you get.

Seems everyone just hates to see me change
But my brain feels maimed with no ambition of fame
Just money and its funny all I want is that and my honey
Coz the rest are all dummies and I can’t get chummy
With new people who are feeble, fake, and evil
And old friends who crossed me are no longer equals
So i'm use to standing alone prone to breaking thrones
A war zone is my home and a battling I shall go
No love for my peers not after all these years
I won’t shed a tear to hear u all lost what is dear
Coz u haven’t got a clue on what it means to be true
All u do is front, your lost in an image that isn’t you
Like your all a heard of sheep, your all the same no one is unique
U will never reach the peak with all that rubbish you speak
A petty lil criminal running his mouth like he hard is so pitiful
Taking advice from a prisoner? U idiot that’s why u minimal
Wise up learn from the quiet ones before your freedom is critical

Money and me, we’re such a team
Money and me, inseparable we
Money and me, together we dream
Money and me, in harmony
Money and me, such synergy
Money and me, so much in love
Money and me, a power to be
Money and me, we’re hand in glove.
Copyright © Mark R Slaughter 2009

We all crave and long for money;
the rich, the poor, the young
and old cry for money to keep and hold.
We crave to be masters of money
or end up to be money´s slaves.
Either way, we fall into the pit
if money becomes our masters
and we end up, enslaved by money.
Money is only a gift to use and share
It cannot last for long, for like water,
it flows and evaporates.
Ask for money and work for it
but let it not be your master
to be served, but a simple resource
to use, share and give to those in need.

You have money
You are hungry
You have money
You are not getting anything
You have money
You have no love
You have no fresh air
You have money
You are not getting anything
You have money
You are alone
You have money
You have no place to stay
You have money
You have mp humanity
You have no sensibility
You are nothing
You have money
And you are bankrupt
And you are not happy.

Money is the root of all evil,
Money was blessed by the devil,
Money, money can kill,
Money can cheat, steal…
Ask the disbarred lawyer,
What this sad creature
Can do: It can commit suicide,
Money, money can divide,
Money is not what you think it is,
Having money is not going to put you really at ease,
On the contrary, you’ll have fewer friends,
And more creatures showing their hands,
Claws, guns and deadly weapons.
Money will not send you to the heavens,
Money, money is dirty and evil;
Money is a sick devil.
Money and women don’t mix,
Just like alcohol and driving.
Having hush money is not a quick fix,
But a dangerous way to go down the ravine.
Money is not what you think it is,
Having money is not going to put you really at ease.
Money exists to be spent:
To buy food, clothes, and to pay the rent.
Be careful with money,
Money is not a faithful honey.

Money Saved Is Money Earned
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
What is money?
They say
Money makes the world go around
And people crazy and unsound
It's nothing and everything as well
Full of wonders and full of fools
Makes all endlessly ponder and droll
Some have too much and some less
A dollar or a dime, our lives they rule
And it's true and it's true
Yet there goes a saying, that's also true
That money saved is money earned
The wisdom that carries truth and mind
It's a thing to be frugal
Being thrifty, prudent and economical
Not to be misunderstood with being parsimonious
That carries attitude miserly or ungenerous
Frugal are those
That suppresses instant gratification
Thereby making themselves efficient and wise
At the core of the principle lies
The wisdom of using less or storing what remains
And not even wasting anything less
Or else, to quote Confucius
'He who will not economize will have to agonize'
This is true for both individuals and businesses

peace..
love..
money..
what i feel the most? ! ..
what i love the most? ! ..
what i need the most? ! ..
sometimes i feel happiness..
sometimes i get lost..
_______________________________________ _______
*** your comments will be a fortune to me, thanks truly ***

The story's told
Of long ago
About a statue
With a head of gold
And its breast
Did silver shine
And brassness
At lower spine
Now iron did make
The legs so strong
And at its base
Was all made wrong
For it was built
Of miry clay
And reinforced
With iron sway
It stood upon sand
Which did give way
When the base was hit
By a Stone that day
The great image
Built sixty high
Summed three sixes
From its front side
And through it was
Only six wide
It bare the mark
Of beastly pride
But the beast did crumble
And was blown away
Like shaft in the wind
Forever gone to stay
And that Stone hewn
By no man's hand
Became a Mountain
Forever to stand.

long walk at night
the breeze freezes my spirit
the moon warms it up
pulling at my poetic soul
the crickets sing their poems to the night
a million other insects contribute their share
to loosen up the night
for lovers, husbands and wives
while a tide of words too
creeps in all directions in my mental sphere
saturates the poetic bar of the intellect
waiting to be strummed into verses
the rhythm swims along with them
as i write out verse by verse
the moon my friend shares its light
the night wind inspires
lovelorn stars wave all the way
a million light years away
heralding the birth of a song
sparkling, twinkling
guided by intricate orchestration of the night
before gracing the written page
long walk in the night
even the insects with the lamps
start to lend me their lights
between the twinke of the stars
they dance, sing, beat out a dance

Blossoming from the rock
A soul of a desperate lock
Becomes one with the blue moon
Hues of blue and gray
A due of death today
A blue moon rises in the west
It seemed so long ago
When the moon was so-so
And never went to the side of the blue
Now life is happening
And flowers are dying
The moon so blue is in the middle of the night sky
A love is a death
With a beginning and end
Just like the blue moon
With the beginning of a new day
The moon is hidden
And a new life is born
Unlike the moon of blue
Copyright 2006 Dustin Bennefield

When I was a boy I called the moon a
white plate of jade, sometimes it looked
like a great mirror hanging in the sky,
first came the two legs of the fairy
and the cassia tree, but for whom the rabbit
kept on pounding medical herbs, I
just could not guess. Now the moon is being
swallowed by the toad and the light
flickers out leaving darkness all around;
I hear that when nine of the burning suns out
of the ten were ordered to be shot down by
the Emperor Yao, all has since been quiet
and peaceful both for heaven and man,
but this eating up of the moon is for me
a truly ugly scene filling me with forebodings
wondering what will come out of it.

I
The Moon is like a ping-pong ball;
I lean against the orchard wall,
And see it soar into the void,
A silky sphere of celluloid.
Then fairy fire enkindles it,
Like gossamer by taper lit,
Until it glows above the trees
As mellow as a Cheddar cheese.
And up and up I watch it press
Into appalling loneliness;
Like realms of ice without a stain,
A corpse Moon come to life again.
Ruthless it drowns a sturdy star
That seeks its regal way to bar;
Seeming with conscious power to grow,
And sweeter, purer, gladder glow.
Dreaming serenely up the sky
Until exultantly on high,
It shimmers with superb delight,
The silver navel of the night.
II
I have a compact to commune
A monthly midnight with the Moon;
Into its face I stare and stare,
And find sweet understanding there.
As quiet as a toad I sit
And tell my tale of days to it;
The tessellated yarn I've spun
In thirty spells of star and sun.
And the Moon listens pensively,
As placid as a lamb to me;
Until I think there's just us two
In silver world of mist and dew.
In all of spangled space, but I
To stare moon-struck into the sky;
Of billion beings I alone
To praise the Moon as still as stone.
And seal a bond between us two,
Closer than mortal ever knew;
For as mute masses I intone
The Moon is mine and mine alone.
III
To know the Moon as few men may,
One must be just a little fey;
And for our friendship's sake I'm glad
That I am just a trifle mad.
And one with all the wild, wise things,
The furtive folk of fur and wings,
That hold the Moon within their eyes,
And make it nightly sacrifice.
O I will watch the maiden Moon
Dance on the sea with silver shoon;
But with the Queen Moon I will keep
My tryst when all the world's asleep.
As I have kept by land and sea
That tryst for half a century;
Entranced in sibylline suspense
Beyond a world of common-sense.
Until one night the Moon alone
Will look upon a graven stone. . . .
I wonder will it miss me then,
Its lover more than other men?
Or will my wistful ghost be there,
Down ages dim to stare and stare,
On silver nights without a stir--
The Moon's Eternal Worshipper?

Now every leaf, though colorless, burns bright
With disembodied and celestial light,
And drops without a movement or a sound
A pillar of darkness to the shifting ground.
The lucent, thin, and alcoholic flame
Runs in the stubble with a nervous aim,
But, when the eye pursues, will point with fire
Each single stubble-tip and strain no higher.
O triple goddess! Contemplate my plight!
Opacity, my fate! Change, my delight!
The yellow tom-cat, sunk in shifting fur,
Changes and dreams, a phosphorescent blur.
Sullen I wait, but still the vision shun.
Bodiless thoughts and thoughtless bodies run.

The man cut his throat and left his head there.
The others went to get it.
When they got there they put the head in a sack.
Farther on the head fell out onto the ground.
They put the head back in the sack.
Farther on the head fell out again.
Around the first sack they put a second one that
was thicker.
But the head fell out just the same.
It should be explained that they were taking the head
to show to the others.
They did not put the head back in the sack.
They left it in the middle of the road.
They went away.
They crossed the river.
But the head followed them.
They climbed up a tree full of fruit
to see whether it would go past.
The head stopped at the foot of the tree
and asked them for some fruit.
So the men shook the tree.
The head went to get the fruit.
Then it asked for some more.
So the men shook the tree
so that the fruit fell into the water.
The head said it couldn't get the fruit from there.
So the men threw the fruit a long way
to make the head go a long way to get it so they could go.
While the head was getting the fruit
the men got down from the tree and went on.
The head came back and looked at the tree
and didn't see anybody
so went on rolling down the road.
The men had stopped to wait
to see whether the head would follow them.
They saw the head come rolling.
They ran.
They got to their hut they told the others that the head
was rolling after them and to shut the door.
All the huts were closed tight.
When it got there the head commanded them to open the doors.
The owners would not open them because they were afraid.
So the head started to think what it would turn into.
If it turned into water they would drink it.
If it turned into earth they would walk on it.
If it turned into a house they would live in it.
If it turned into a steer they would kill it and eat it.
If it turned into a cow they would milk it.
If it turned into a bean they would cook it.
If it turned into the sun
When men were cold it would heat them.
If it turned into rain the grass would grow and the
animals would crop it.
So it thought, and it said, "I will turn into the moon."
It called, "Open the doors, I want to get my things."
They would not open them.
The head cried. It called out, "At least give me
my two balls of twine."
They threw out the two balls of twine through a hole.
It took them and threw them into the sky.
It asked them to throw it a little stick too
to roll the thread around so it could climb up.
Then it said, "I can climb, I am going to the sky."
It started to climb.
The men opened the doors right away.
The head went on climbing.
The men shouted, "You going to the sky, head?"
It didn't answer.
As soon as it got to the Sun
it turned into the Moon.
Toward evening the Moon was white, it was beautiful.
And the men were surprised
to see that the head had turned into the Moon.

The sunset melts upon the Nile,
The stony desert glows,
Beneath heaven's universal smile,
One burning damask rose;
And like a Peri's pearly boat,
No longer than a span,
Look, faint on fiery sky afloat,
The Moon of Ramadân.
Our boat drifts idly with the Stream,
Our boatmen ship the oar;
Vistas of endless temples gleam
On either topaz shore;
And swimming over groves of Palm,
A crescent weak and wan,
There steals into the perfect calm
The Moon of Ramadân.
All nature seems to bask in peace
And hush her lowest sigh;
Above the river's golden fleece
The happy Halcyons fly.
And lost in some old lotos dream,
The pensive Pelican
Sees mirrored in the mazy stream
The Moon of Ramadân.
Black outlined on the golden air
A turbaned Silhouette,
The Mueddin invites to prayer
From many a Minaret.
Our dusky boatmen hear the call,
And prostrate, man on man,
They bow, adoring, one and all,
The Moon of Ramadân.
Where Luxor's rose-flushed columns shine
Above the river's brim,
The priests with incense once, and wine,
Made sacrifice to Him,
The highest god of Thebes, and head
Of all the heavenly clan;
But now the Moslem hails instead
The Moon of Ramadân.
The gods have come, the gods have gone,
Yet wedded to their walls,
Winged with the serpent of the Sun
In mute processionals,
They stride from door to massy door,
Bound nations in their van,
Though Amon's Sun has waned before
The Moon of Ramadân.
Yea, even proud Egypt's proudest king,
Who chastised rebel lands,
And brought his gods for offering
Mountains of severed hands;
Who singly, like a god of War,
Smote hosts that swerved and ran,
Lies low 'neath Allah's scimetar--
The Moon of Ramadân.
And Isis, Queen, whose sacred disk's
Horned splendour crowned her brow,
While fires of flashing Obelisks
Flamed in the Afterglow;
And white-robed priests who served her shrine
Have turned Mahommedan,
And worship Him who wears for sign
The Moon of Ramadân.
The rosy lotos, flower and leaf,
Which wreathed each sacred lake,
With Nature's loveliest bas-relief,
Has followed in their wake;
Yea, with the last true Pharaoh's death,
The lotos leaves, grown wan,
Have changed to lily white beneath
The Moon of Ramadân.
The gods may come, the gods may go,
And royal realms change hands;
But the most ancient Nile will flow,
And flood the desert sands;
And nightly will he glass the stars'
Unearthly caravan,
Nor care if it be Rome's red Mars
Or Moon of Ramadân.
The sunset fades upon the Nile;
The desert's stony gloom,
Receding blankly mile on mile,
Grows silent as a tomb.
All weary wanderers, man and beast,
Hie, fasting, to the Khan,
While shines above their nightly feast
The Moon of Ramadân.

The beautiful and slender young New Moon,
In trailing robes of pink and palest blue,
Swept close to Venus, and breathed low: 'A boon,
A precious boon, I ask, dear friend, of you.'
'O queen of light and beauty, you have known
The pangs of love - its passions and alarms;
Then grant me this one favour, let my own -
My lost Old Moon be once more in my arms.'
Swift thro' the vapours and the golden mist -
The Full Moon's shadowy shape shone on the night,
The New Moon reached out clasping arms and kissed
Her phantom lover in the whole world's sight.

Art thou pale for weariness
Of climbing heaven and gazing on the earth,
Wandering companionless
Among the stars that have a different birth, -
And ever changing, like a joyless eye
That finds no object worth its constancy?

504
You know that Portrait in the Moon—
So tell me who 'tis like—
The very Brow—the stooping eyes—
A fog for—Say—Whose Sake?
The very Pattern of the Cheek—
It varies—in the Chin—
But—Ishmael—since we met—'tis long—
And fashions—intervene—
When Moon's at full—'Tis Thou—I say—
My lips just hold the name—
When crescent—Thou art worn—I note—
But—there—the Golden Same—
And when—Some Night—Bold—slashing Clouds
Cut Thee away from Me—
That's easier—than the other film
That glazes Holiday—

At four years Nature is mountainous,
Mysterious, and submarine. Even
A city child knows this, hearing the subway's
Rumor underground. Between the grate,
Dropping his penny, he learned out all loss,
The irretrievable cent of fate,
And now this newest of the mysteries,
Confronts his honest and his studious eyes----
His mother much too fat and absentminded,
Gazing past his face, careless of him,
His fume, his charm, his bedtime, and warm milk,
As soon the night will be too dark, the spring
Too late, desire strange, and time too fast,
This estrangement is a gradual thing
(His mother once so svelte, so often sick!
Towering father did this: what a trick!)
Explained to cautiously, containing fear,
Another being's being, becoming dear:
All men are enemies: thus even brothers
Can separate each other from their mothers!
No better example than this unborn brother
Shall teach him of his exile from his mother,
Measured by his distance from the sky,
Spoken in two vowels,
I am I.

You've been the greatest mother to me
Teaching me many things that others never see
And so I write to you this very day
That The Lord may bless you in every way
Through the years of heartbreak and toil
You've always been there for this boy who you spoil
And now I'm a man whom you trained in the past
Though sometimes I may tell you to 'just kiss my ass'
Anyway I just wanted to say
Thank you my mother for starting me on His Way
For without your teaching I'd be lost today
But because of you and God by my side
Maybe I will find the bravery inside
The strength to withstand every personal attack
That mine enemies throw at me and I might just lack
And so to you the 'world's best Mom'
I'll remember you always as I drop this bomb! ! !
Thank you, I love you Mom
Love, Your first born son
Mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom Mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom Mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom Mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom Mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom Mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom Mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom Mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom Mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom Mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom Mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom Mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother

Mother Earth and Father Time are walking hand in hand.
They're visiting their children and checking on their land.
They view the worlds destruction everywhere they turn.
They fear their precious children are never going to learn.
''This earth should be their playground with joys beyond belief
yet, all these children seem to know is senseless pain and grief.''
''How do we teach our children to care for such a place?
They may not get the message till we slap them in their face.''
The children are oblivious to even basic rules.
That's why so many people grow up looking like such fools.

You were the center of our universe
The mother of us all
You gave to us your everything
We only need to call
And soon your strength was tested
Though you put up such a fight
For from a distant spiritual land
The angels called you in the night
For someone up in heaven
Looked down upon the land
And chose mom  for her strength
To come and give a hand
He knew that her legacy
That she had left behind
Would withstand the pain and grief
Over a period of time
For she had fulfilled his prophesy
Spreading love, honor, and hope
She instilled in those she left behind
The ability to understand and cope

My mother would be a falconress,
And I, her gay falcon treading her wrist,
would fly to bring back
from the blue of the sky to her, bleeding, a prize,
where I dream in my little hood with many bells
jangling when I'd turn my head.
My mother would be a falconress,
and she sends me as far as her will goes.
She lets me ride to the end of her curb
where I fall back in anguish.
I dread that she will cast me away,
for I fall, I mis-take, I fail in her mission.
She would bring down the little birds.
And I would bring down the little birds.
When will she let me bring down the little birds,
pierced from their flight with their necks broken,
their heads like flowers limp from the stem?
I tread my mother's wrist and would draw blood.
Behind the little hood my eyes are hooded.
I have gone back into my hooded silence,
talking to myself and dropping off to sleep.
For she has muffled my dreams in the hood she has made me,
sewn round with bells, jangling when I move.
She rides with her little falcon upon her wrist.
She uses a barb that brings me to cower.
She sends me abroad to try my wings
and I come back to her. I would bring down
the little birds to her
I may not tear into, I must bring back perfectly.
I tear at her wrist with my beak to draw blood,
and her eye holds me, anguisht, terrifying.
She draws a limit to my flight.
Never beyond my sight, she says.
She trains me to fetch and to limit myself in fetching.
She rewards me with meat for my dinner.
But I must never eat what she sends me to bring her.
Yet it would have been beautiful, if she would have carried me,
always, in a little hood with the bells ringing,
at her wrist, and her riding
to the great falcon hunt, and me
flying up to the curb of my heart from her heart
to bring down the skylark from the blue to her feet,
straining, and then released for the flight.
My mother would be a falconress,
and I her gerfalcon raised at her will,
from her wrist sent flying, as if I were her own
pride, as if her pride
knew no limits, as if her mind
sought in me flight beyond the horizon.
Ah, but high, high in the air I flew.
And far, far beyond the curb of her will,
were the blue hills where the falcons nest.
And then I saw west to the dying sun-
it seemd my human soul went down in flames.
I tore at her wrist, at the hold she had for me,
until the blood ran hot and I heard her cry out,
far, far beyond the curb of her will
to horizons of stars beyond the ringing hills of the world where
the falcons nest
I saw, and I tore at her wrist with my savage beak.
I flew, as if sight flew from the anguish in her eye beyond her sight,
sent from my striking loose, from the cruel strike at her wrist,
striking out from the blood to be free of her.
My mother would be a falconress,
and even now, years after this,
when the wounds I left her had surely heald,
and the woman is dead,
her fierce eyes closed, and if her heart
were broken, it is stilld
I would be a falcon and go free.
I tread her wrist and wear the hood,
talking to myself, and would draw blood.

By that he ended had his ghostly sermon,
The fox was well induc'd to be a parson,
And of the priest eftsoons gan to inquire,
How to a benefice he might aspire.
"Marry, there" (said the priest) "is art indeed:
Much good deep learning one thereout may read;
For that the ground-work is, and end of all,
How to obtain a beneficial.
First, therefore, when ye have in handsome wise
Yourself attired, as you can devise,
Then to some nobleman yourself apply,
Or other great one in the world{"e}s eye,
That hath a zealous disposition
To God, and so to his religion.
There must thou fashion eke a godly zeal,
Such as no carpers may contrare reveal;
For each thing feigned ought more wary be.
There thou must walk in sober gravity,
And seem as saint-like as Saint Radegund:
Fast much, pray oft, look lowly on the ground,
And unto every one do courtesy meek:
These looks (nought saying) do a benefice seek,
But be thou sure one not to lack or long.
And if thee list unto the court to throng,
And there to hunt after the hoped prey,
Then must thou thee dispose another way:
For there thou needs must learn to laugh, to lie,
To face, to forge, to scoff, to company,
To crouch, to please, to be a beetle-stock
Of thy great master's will, to scorn, or mock.
So may'st thou chance mock out a benefice,
Unless thou canst one conjure by device,
Or cast a figure for a bishopric;
And if one could, it were but a school trick.
These be the ways by which without reward
Livings in court be gotten, though full hard;
For nothing there is done without a fee:
The courtier needs must recompensed be
With a benevolence, or have in gage
The primitias of your parsonage:
Scarce can a bishopric forpass them by,
But that it must be gelt in privity.
Do not thou therefore seek a living there,
But of more private persons seek elsewhere,
Whereas thou may'st compound a better penny,
Ne let thy learning question'd be of any.
For some good gentleman, that hath the right
Unto his church for to present a wight,
Will cope with thee in reasonable wise;
That if the living yearly do arise
To forty pound, that then his youngest son
Shall twenty have, and twenty thou hast won:
Thou hast it won, for it is of frank gift,
And he will care for all the rest to shift,
Both that the bishop may admit of thee,
And that therein thou may'st maintained be.
This is the way for one that is unlearn'd
Living to get, and not to be discern'd.
But they that are great clerks, have nearer ways,
For learning sake to living them to raise;
Yet many eke of them (God wot) are driven
T' accept a benefice in pieces riven.
How say'st thou (friend), have I not well discourst
Upon this common-place (though plain, not worst)?
Better a short tale than a bad long shriving.
Needs any more to learn to get a living?"
"Now sure, and by my halidom," (quoth he)
"Ye a great master are in your degree:
Great thanks I yield you for your discipline,
And do not doubt but duly to incline
My wits thereto, as ye shall shortly hear."
The priest him wish'd good speed, and well to fare:
So parted they, as either's way them led.
But th' ape and fox ere long so well them sped,
Through the priest's wholesome counsel lately taught,
And through their own fair handling wisely wrought,
That they a benefice 'twixt them obtained;
And crafty Reynold was a priest ordained,
And th' ape his parish clerk procur'd to be.
Then made they revel rout and goodly glee;
But, ere long time had passed, they so ill
Did order their affairs, that th' evil will
Of all their parish'ners they had constrain'd;
Who to the Ordinary of them complain'd,
How foully they their offices abus'd,
And them of crimes and heresies accus'd,
That pursuivants he often for them sent;
But they neglected his command{"e}ment.
So long persisted obstinate and bold,
Till at the length he published to hold
A visitation, and them cited thether:
Then was high time their wits about to geather.
What did they then, but made a composition
With their next neighbour priest, for light condition,
To whom their living they resigned quite
For a few pence, and ran away by night.

She is too kind, I think, for mortal things,
Too gentle for the gusty ways of earth;
God gave to her a shy and silver mirth,
And made her soul as clear
And softly singing as an orchard spring's
In sheltered hollows all the sunny year--
A spring that thru the leaning grass looks up
And holds all heaven in its clarid cup,
Mirror to holy meadows high and blue
With stars like drops of dew.
I love to think that never tears at night
Have made her eyes less bright;
That all her girlhood thru
Never a cry of love made over-tense
Her voice's innocence;
That in her hands have lain,
Flowers beaten by the rain,
And little birds before they learned to sing
Drowned in the sudden ecstasy of spring.
I love to think that with a wistful wonder
She held her baby warm against her breast;
That never any fear awoke whereunder
She shuddered at her gift, or trembled lest
Thru the great doors of birth
Here to a windy earth
She lured from heaven a half-unwilling guest.
She caught and kept his first vague flickering smile,
The faint upleaping of his spirit's fire;
And for a long sweet while
In her was all he asked of earth or heaven--
But in the end how far,
Past every shaken star,
Should leap at last that arrow-like desire,
His full-grown manhood's keen
Ardor toward the unseen
Dark mystery beyond the Pleiads seven.
And in her heart she heard
His first dim-spoken word--
She only of them all could understand,
Flushing to feel at last
The silence over-past,
Thrilling as tho' her hand had touched God's hand.
But in the end how many words
Winged on a flight she could not follow,
Farther than skyward lark or swallow,
His lips should free to lands she never knew;
Braver than white sea-faring birds
With a fearless melody,
Flying over a shining sea,
A star-white song between the blue and blue.
Oh I have seen a lake as clear and fair
As it were molten air,
Lifting a lily upward to the sun.
How should the water know the glowing heart
That ever to the heaven lifts its fire,
A golden and unchangeable desire?
The water only knows
The faint and rosy glows
Of under-petals, opening apart.
Yet in the soul of earth,
Deep in the primal ground,
Its searching roots are wound,
And centuries have struggled toward its birth.
So, in the man who sings,
All of the voiceless horde
>From the cold dawn of things
Have their reward;
All in whose pulses ran
Blood that is his at last,
>From the first stooping man
Far in the winnowed past.
Out of the tumult of their love and mating
Each one created, seeing life was good--
Dumb, till at last the song that they were waiting
Breaks like brave April thru a wintry wood.

I RISE in the dawn, and I kneel and blow
Till the seed of the fire flicker and glow;
And then I must scrub and bake and sweep
Till stars are beginning to blink and peep;
And the young lie long and dream in their bed
Of the matching of ribbons for bosom and head,
And their ~y goes over in idleness,
And they sigh if the wind but lift a tress:
While I must work because I am old,
And the seed of the fire gets feeble and cold.

In nineteen hundred twenty four,
Because our father died,
Our mother had to go to work,
And swallow family pride.
She had three youngsters then to raise;
It was no easy task;
For handout or for charity,
She wouldn't ever ask.
She paid her way, and theirs, as well,
An everlasting grind:
Example of the highest type
That one could ever find.
From typist to important jobs,
Advancing all the way;
Was dedicated to her work,
And she was there to stay.
She put herself through high school
By attending class at night.
Then evening college studies
Would provide a future, bright.
She taught us things like faith and hope,
And, also, charity.
And, in addition, we were shown,
What's called:  frugality.
But, halfway through her college quest
A major war was on.
So, Navy was the uniform
That she would neatly don.
The years she worked in Government
Would total forty two.
And, after that, she settled back,
With other things to do.
She's owned her home for forty years,
And now we help her stay there.
We often go to visit her,
And, now and then, we pray there.
She helps her children even now;
She's not like any other:
One of a kind, perfectionist;
A very special mother.

I had been wondering off
In this dream by which I was bound
Until I was awoken
By some horrific sound
I had come upon
This murder in the clouds
Way up I could be
And I couldn't help myself but to see
That poor murdered girl I saw that day
Way up in the air
Had a far away look in her eyes
And blood filled her hair
That day to me
Was so very clear
And there was not a single thing
That I had to fear
I remember everything
The red on white
The evil glare of deathly eyes
And that final devilish bite
An oh so perfect time
Had turned very bad
When a happy little girl was murdered
All because of her dad
He crashed her special day
With a hit on her life
That started with rays of sunshine
And ended with a knife
All fucked up on drugs
With his arm in a cast
His daughters special day
He wanted to be her last
And due to
A backstabbing son of a b*tch
An almost perfect life was ruined
By one heartless bruin
Because it was on that gloomy day
Amidst all of the crowds
That a poor girl lost her life
In what is known as the murder in the clouds

Pretty eyes wide
With a sweet innocent stare
Lips that whisper and pout
I had no idea
That he was such a dangerous man
I'm just a victim
A witness to a mad man's love
But is she really or....
Did she get away with murder?
Angel or devil?
Who is the real Amber?
Hiding behind those tears
Does there lurk a killer's lie?
Was Scott the only one?
That Lacy could not trust
What about the blonde temptress?
Standing in the shadows
Did she get away with murder?
Sinner
Saint
What will time come to reveal?
Will we ever know?
Or do we listen only
To what she would like us to believe
The angel with the devil's eyes
Did she get away with murder?
For a fatal affair
2 paid
With their lifes
Gone too young
Too soon
How could this lady have not known?
Just what pain she would bring
Or was that her plan all along?
To get rid of her competiton
Amber Frye-Did she get away with murder?

Poeple say god took you away
But it was life that took you on that horid day
I hear our song and think of your smile
Why can't you come back and stay awhile
When you were here everything was okay

Murder - Cinquain
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Murder
Horror in world
Bleeding, atrocious crime;
Throws to the deep hell, the abysm
Souls pained.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza| 16 November,2017

For an attempt to begin such verse
I must abstain from any meter.
There has also been a murder of rhythm,
Amongst the other sentiments.
I declare it to be
A delusional tragedy
Sung infused with disgust
And the immortal grief.
They rejoice their happy songs
When I still ask back my sanity.
As I look at my unlucky stars
The dimmest in the skies lying far
Look within me now
And see how empty people are!
How people are who feed on themselves
How are those who have lost their senses
Whose dreams demise
Like the summer morning dew
And whose desires are trampled
In demonic trenches.
I am amongst those who pray in the graveyard
I am the one who breathes in death
I drown away in the river of my pain
To slaughter my sentiments again.
Dying is easy for the courageous
So I let my sentiments die.
I have forgot what is normality
And also forgot what was my.
I have escaped from the war
And I am out of the line
Torn between two worlds
Real, and the divine.
I see flesh, I see blood
Of my sentiments and my own
Flowing from far forgone.
Revenge is uninvited
But together we shall be.
I murder my sentiments
And they, murder me.

Murder me
Murder with your love
Murder me with you lies
You commit murder when I look in your eyes
You tell me over and over you love me why can’t we just live our lives
Murder commits suicide
Kill or be killed
No choice but to murder
Love is murder in the making
When you tell a person you love them its murder in the 3rd degree with a guilty plea
25 years to life with no college degrees No chance you’ll ever be paroled
Murder
Murder Me

When the Lieutenant of the Guardia de Asalto
heard the automatic go off, he turned
and took the second shot just above
the sternum, the third tore away
the right shoulder of his uniform,
the fourth perforated his cheek. As he
slid out of his comrade's hold
toward the gray cement of the Ramblas
he lost count and knew only
that he would not die and that the blue sky
smudged with clouds was not heaven
for heaven was nowhere and in his eyes
slowly filling with their own light.
The pigeons that spotted the cold floor
of Barcelona rose as he sank below
the waves of silence crashing
on the far shores of his legs, growing
faint and watery. His hands opened
a last time to receive the benedictions
of automobile exhaust and rain
and the rain of soot. His mouth,
that would never again say 'I am afraid,'
closed on nothing. The old grandfather
hawking daisies at his stand pressed
a handkerchief against his lips
and turned his eyes away before they held
the eyes of a gunman. The shepherd dogs
on sale howled in their cages
and turned in circles. There is more
to be said, but by someone who has suffered
and died for his sister the earth
and his brothers the beasts and the trees.
The Lieutenant can hear it, the prayer
that comes on the voices of water, today
or yesterday, form Chicago or Valladolid,
and hands like smoke above this street
he won't walk as a man ever again.

Step on it good and hard,
make sure it is dead.
Hope under heel,
grinding into powder.
Slide that knife across skin,
hard and deep to be sure.
In a ditch like a missing person,
Hope lies bleeding.
Salt that wound and burn it,
coagulating under your heat.
Blood and dirt combine,
this sickeningly sweet murder excites you.
Toss the weapons aside,
no caring if they're found.
Your murder was metaphorical,
no reprisals are forthcoming.

I believe in peace and have been persecuted
for a love of peace belief for enlightened years
by people brain washed into thinking war is
right war is good, wrong war is murder legalized
Copyright © Terence George Craddock

When there is a song about love
then the music does become a soul of my heart
When I hug the melody of music
then I feel the spirit of words, traveling with me
When the voice of music passes in the air
then my ears are listening to its harmony
When I close my eyes and feel the rhythm of its music
then I dream an angel of its music goes around me
Melody is my love and the eternal music is my life
The music has its own story that plays with amazing emotions
and I can hear its beautiful song with touching rhythms
Let it be symphony, classic, jazz or hard rock
but everyone loves music which has only one language
in this universe that has known as Sound of Music.
Anyone who has no interest themselves in music
is nothing but dead bodies on the ground.
Because music is my eternal life.

I am in need of music that would flow
Over my fretful, feeling fingertips,
Over my bitter-tainted, trembling lips,
With melody, deep, clear, and liquid-slow.
Oh, for the healing swaying, old and low,
Of some song sung to rest the tired dead,
A song to fall like water on my head,
And over quivering limbs, dream flushed to glow!
There is a magic made by melody:
A spell of rest, and quiet breath, and cool
Heart, that sinks through fading colors deep
To the subaqueous stillness of the sea,
And floats forever in a moon-green pool,
Held in the arms of rhythm and of sleep.

Music is a
Melting emotion,
Managing my mind,
Meticulously tuned,
Melodiously restrained,
Mellifluously refrained,
Magnificently soulful;
Majestic queen of symphonies.

Music is a door,
An escape to a different world.
A world you make and controll in your mind.
Music is a hero,
One to cheer your spirits when you are down.
Music is an enemy,
sometimes the lyrics bring you down.
Music is your personality,
expressed through song.
The music player,
Is you, the one holding it all together.
Music is an awakening to the real world.
Its lyrics are real and true.
Music is a best friend,
One to give advice when you need it.
Music is what you think of it.
Its starts off empty and colorless,
and escalates to something more,
your own world.

Once played to attentive faces
music has broken its frame
its bodice of always-weak laces
the entirely promiscuous art
pours out in public spaces
accompanying everything, the selections
of sex and war, the rejections.
To jeans-wearers in zipped sporrans
it transmits an ideal body
continuously as theirs age. Warrens
of plastic tiles and mesh throats
dispense this aural money
this sleek accountancy of notes
deep feeling adrift from its feelers
thought that means everything at once
like a shrugging of cream shoulders
like paintings hung on park mesh
sonore doom soneer illy chesh
they lost the off switch in my lifetime
the world reverberates with Muzak
and Prozac. As it doesn't with poe-zac
(I did meet a Miss Universe named Verstak).
Music to me is like days
I rarely catch who composed them
if one's sublime I think God
my life-signs suspend. I nod
it's like both Stilton and cure
from one harpsichord-hum:
penicillium -
then I miss the Köchel number.
I scarcely know whose performance
of a limpid autumn noon is superior
I gather timbre outranks rhumba.
I often can't tell days apart
they are the consumers, not me
in my head collectables decay
I've half-heard every piece of music
the glorious big one with voice
the gleaming instrumental one, so choice
the hypnotic one like weed-smoke at a party
and the muscular one out of farty
cars that goes Whudda Whudda
Whudda like the compound oil heart
of a warrior not of this planet.

SINCE first I saw your face I resolved to honour and renown ye;
If now I be disdained I wish my heart had never known ye.
What? I that loved and you that liked, shall we begin to wrangle?
No, no, no, my heart is fast, and cannot disentangle.
If I admire or praise you too much, that fault you may forgive me;
Or if my hands had stray'd but a touch, then justly might you leave
me.
I ask'd you leave, you bade me love; is 't now a time to chide me?
No, no, no, I'll love you still what fortune e'er betide me.
The Sun, whose beams most glorious are, rejecteth no beholder,
And your sweet beauty past compare made my poor eyes the bolder:
Where beauty moves and wit delights and signs of kindness bind me,
There, O there! where'er I go I'll leave my heart behind me!

THAT music always round me, unceasing, unbeginning--yet long untaught
I did not hear;
But now the chorus I hear, and am elated;
A tenor, strong, ascending, with power and health, with glad notes of
day-break I hear,
A soprano, at intervals, sailing buoyantly over the tops of immense
waves,
A transparent bass, shuddering lusciously under and through the
universe,
The triumphant tutti--the funeral wailings, with sweet flutes and
violins--all these I fill myself with;
I hear not the volumes of sound merely--I am moved by the exquisite
meanings,
I listen to the different voices winding in and out, striving,
contending with fiery vehemence to excel each other in emotion;
I do not think the performers know themselves--but now I think I
begin to know them.

Charms, that call down the moon from out her sphere,
On this sick youth work your enchantments here!
Bind up his senses with your numbers, so
As to entrance his pain, or cure his woe.
Fall gently, gently, and a-while him keep
Lost in the civil wilderness of sleep:
That done, then let him, dispossess'd of pain,
Like to a slumbering bride, awake again.

A trout-colored wind blows
through my eyes, through my fingers,
and I remember how the trout
used to hide from the dinosaurs
when they came to drink at the river.
The trout hid in subways, castles,
and automobiles. They waited patiently for the dinosaurs to go away.

A comet came with a large metal core
Racing ‘cross the heavens toward the sun it tore
It started to shed its frozen surface
Of gasses, vapors, and minerals it bore
A collection of time from deep out in space
Now littered its trail with cosmic waste
But as its course closed in too near
It parted the flux of the Heliosphere
Then out of the Sun's plasmatic sea
Leaped an enormous flare
That swiped the hare
A giant shock wave
From the forces that be
Gravity, centrifugal, and a nuclear blast
Sent the fuel supplier again on the chase
Back out to the heavens on a new pace
Flinging it further out into space
On a much longer run which might be its last
< br>
nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature

The falling of snowflakes coming down
Making a blanket of white on the ground.
Autumn with red and gold-leaves,
Falling to the ground, in a cool breeze.
The rising of the sun of crimson,
A buzzing of the Bees,
As they go on their mission.
A cool-breese blowing in the trees.
The beautiful- flowers of red, yellow, and blue.
The sparkling of grass, with morning-dew.
The sea is beautiful, with Blue-sky above.
The flying of sea-gulls and of doves.
The birds singing up in the trees,
As a gentle-wind blows the green-leaves.
Beautiful-butterflies going their way.
The beauty of nature, really make my day!

It is no vulgar nature I have wived.
Secretive, sensitive, she takes a wound
Deep to her soul, as if the sense had swooned,
And not a thought of vengeance had survived.
No confidences has she: but relief
Must come to one whose suffering is acute.
O have a care of natures that are mute!
They punish you in acts: their steps are brief.
What is she doing? What does she demand
From Providence or me? She is not one
Long to endure this torpidly, and shun
The drugs that crowd about a woman's hand.
At Forfeits during snow we played, and I
Must kiss her. 'Well performed!' I said: then she:
''Tis hardly worth the money, you agree?'
Save her? What for? To act this wedded lie!

This bogey is a fing
What lives up in your nose
And how they comes to get there
No one really knows
Me grandad likes to blow ‘is out
And then he takes a look
I fink he’s double checking
Just how many he has took
But me see, I is different
I likes to pick ‘em out
By stickin’ up me finger
And jiggling it about
Then when I knows I got one
I quickly whips it out
But I don’t shows I got one
‘cause mum would scream and shout
So then I likes to hold it
Between me fum and finger
I roll it round into a ball
And then I lets it linger
While I finks about a place
Where I can go and stick it
But sometimes when you’re hungry
A bogey’s just the ticket
So this one, what I got right here
I fought you’d like to meet it
It’s big and grey and rubbery
And now I’m gonna eat it!

As a fond mother, when the day is o'er,
Leads by the hand her little child to bed,
Half willing, half reluctant to be led,
And leave his broken playthings on the floor,
Still gazing at them through the open door,
Nor wholly reassured and comforted
By promises of others in their stead,
Which though more splendid, may not please him more;
So Nature deals with us, and takes away
Our playthings one by one, and by the hand
Leads us to rest so gently, that we go
Scarce knowing if we wish to go or stay,
Being too full of sleep to understand
How far the unknown transcends the what we know.

Nature, that washed her hands in milk,
And had forgot to dry them,
Instead of earth took snow and silk,
At love's request to try them,
If she a mistress could compose
To please love's fancy out of those.
Her eyes he would should be of light,
A violet breath, and lips of jelly;
Her hair not black, nor overbright,
And of the softest down her belly;
As for her inside he'd have it
Only of wantonness and wit.
At love's entreaty such a one
Nature made, but with her beauty
She hath framed a heart of stone;
So as Love, by ill destiny,
Must die for her whom nature gave him
Because her darling would not save him.
But time, which nature doth despise
And rudely gives her love the lie,
Makes hope a fool, and sorrow wise,
His hands do neither wash nor dry;
But being made of steel and rust,
Turns snow and silk and milk to dust.
The light, the belly, lips, and breath,
He dims, discolors, and destroys;
With those he feeds but fills not death,
Which sometimes were the food of joys.
Yea, time doth dull each lively wit,
And dries all wantonness with it.
Oh, cruel time, which takes in trust
Our youth, or joys, and all we have,
And pays us but with age and dust;
Who in the dark and silent grave
When we have wandered all our ways
Shuts up the story of our days.

In nature apt to like when I did see
Beauties, which were of many carats fine,
My boiling sprites did thither soon incline,
And, Love, I thought that I was full of thee:
But finding not those restless flames in me,
Which others said did make their souls to pine,
I thought those babes of some pin's hurt did whine,
By my love judging what love's pain might be.
But while I thus with this young lion played,
Mine eyes (shall I say curst or blest?) beheld
Stella; now she is nam'd, need more be said?
In her sight I a lesson new have spell'd,
I now hav learn'd Love right, and learn'd even so,
As who by being poisoned doth poison know.

(I) PROMETHEUS 1-
IT was the south : mid-everything,
-
Mid-land, mid-summer, noon ;
-
And deep within a limpid spring
-
The mirrored sun of June.
-
Splendour in freshness ! Ah, who stole
-
This sun, this fire, from heaven?
-
He holds it shining in his soul,
-
Prometheus the forgiven.
(II) THETIS2-
In her bright title poets dare
-
What the wild eye of fancy sees --
-
Similitude -- the clear, the fair
-
Light mystery of images.
-
Round the blue sea I love the best
-
The argent foam played, slender, fleet ;
-
I saw -- past Wordsworth and the rest --
-
Her natural, Greek, and silver feet.

From father to son
The mark of identity
The Y chromosome
natu re nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature

All out of doors looked darkly in at him
Through the thin frost, almost in separate stars,
That gathers on the pane in empty rooms.
What kept his eyes from giving back the gaze
Was the lamp tilted near them in his hand.
What kept him from remembering what it was
That brought him to that creaking room was age.
He stood with barrels round him -- at a loss.
And having scared the cellar under him
In clomping there, he scared it once again
In clomping off; -- and scared the outer night,
Which has its sounds, familiar, like the roar
Of trees and crack of branches, common things,
But nothing so like beating on a box.
A light he was to no one but himself
Where now he sat, concerned with he knew what,
A quiet light, and then not even that.
He consigned to the moon, such as she was,
So late-arising, to the broken moon
As better than the sun in any case
For such a charge, his snow upon the roof,
His icicles along the wall to keep;
And slept. The log that shifted with a jolt
Once in the stove, disturbed him and he shifted,
And eased his heavy breathing, but still slept.
One aged man -- one man -- can't keep a house,
A farm, a countryside, or if he can,
It's thus he does it of a winter night.

Awake at night--
the sound of the water jar
cracking in the cold.
Translated by Robert Hass

158
Dying! Dying in the night!
Won't somebody bring the light
So I can see which way to go
Into the everlasting snow?
And "Jesus"! Where is Jesus gone?
They said that Jesus—always came—
Perhaps he doesn't know the House—
This way, Jesus, Let him pass!
Somebody run to the great gate
And see if Dollie's coming! Wait!
I hear her feet upon the stair!
Death won't hurt—now Dollie's here!

Last night as I was sleeping,
I dreamt—marvelous error!—
that a spring was breaking
out in my heart.
I said: Along which secret aqueduct,
Oh water, are you coming to me,
water of a new life
that I have never drunk?
Last night as I was sleeping,
I dreamt—marvelous error!—
that I had a beehive
here inside my heart.
And the golden bees
were making white combs
and sweet honey
from my old failures.
Last night as I was sleeping,
I dreamt—marvelous error!—
that a fiery sun was giving
light inside my heart.
It was fiery because I felt
warmth as from a hearth,
and sun because it gave light
and brought tears to my eyes.
Last night as I slept,
I dreamt—marvelous error!—
that it was God I had
here inside my heart.

Night-night moon
Night-night stars
Night-night noisy
trucks and cars.
Night-night sand box
Night-night toys
Night-night other
girls and boys.
Night-night mom
Night-night dad
Night-night Boogie Man
who's not bad.
It's time to go to sleep now,
most all my night nights said.
Night-night blankie
Night-night bed.

ON the beach at night alone,
As the old mother sways her to and fro, singing her husky song,
As I watch the bright stars shining--I think a thought of the clef of
the universes, and of the future.
A VAST SIMILITUDE interlocks all,
All spheres, grown, ungrown, small, large, suns, moons, planets,
comets, asteroids,
All the substances of the same, and all that is spiritual upon the
same,
All distances of place, however wide,
All distances of time--all inanimate forms,
All Souls--all living bodies, though they be ever so different, or in
different worlds,
All gaseous, watery, vegetable, mineral processes--the fishes, the
brutes,                                                      10
All men and women--me also;
All nations, colors, barbarisms, civilizations, languages;
All identities that have existed, or may exist, on this globe, or any
globe;
All lives and deaths--all of the past, present, future;
This vast similitude spans them, and always has spann'd, and shall
forever span them, and compactly hold them, and enclose them.

The park is filled with night and fog,
The veils are drawn about the world,
The drowsy lights along the paths
Are dim and pearled.
Gold and gleaming the empty streets,
gold and gleaming the misty lake,
The mirrored lights like sunken swords,
Glimmer and shake.
Oh, is it not enought to be
Here with this beauty over me?
My throat should ache with praise, and I
Should kneel in joy beneath the sky.
O, Beauty are you not enough?
Why am I crying after love,
With youth, a singing voice and eyes
To take earth's wonder with surprise?
Why have I put off my pride,
Why am I unsatisfied,--
I for whom the pensive night
Binds her cloudy hair with light,--
I, for whom all beauty burns
Like incense in a million urns?
O, Beauty, are you not enough?
Why am I crying after love?

Ancient night and the unruly salt
beat at the walls of my house.
The shadow is all one, the sky
throbs now along with the ocean,
and sky and shadow erupt
in the crash of their vast conflict.
All night long they struggle;
nobody knows the name
of the harsh light that keeps slowly opening
like a languid fruit.
So on the coast comes to light,
out of seething shadow, the harsh dawn,
gnawed at by the moving salt,
swept clean by the mass of night,
bloodstained in its sea-washed crater.

To slip into your shadow under cover of night.
To follow your footsteps, your shadow at the window.
That shadow at the window is you and no one else;
it's you.
Do not open that window behind whose curtains you're moving.
Shut your eyes.
I'd like to shut them with my lips.
But the window opens and the breeze, the breeze
which strangely balances flame and flag surrounds my escape
with its cloak.
The window opens: it's not you.
I knew it all along.

Can’t wait ‘till I’m gone, can rest in peace
Live forever without the stress and grief
Can’t push my feelings aside, I’ve died inside
No point trying to swim against the rising tide
The constant pressure, I’m under siege
Everyone waiting for me to under achieve
Believe everybody leaves as the days go on
To too many friends I’ve had to say so long
I feel defeated, beaten and filled with sin
Only person in the race and still won’t win
I feel ugly, bored, tired and sick
I want to stop breathing, I’m dying to quit.

I’m not the person who walks with you through autumn leaves
In the old park near the school where children play in innocent reverie;
I’m not the man mingling souls with the lady of all his dreams,
But I am the man who desires such things.
I’m the midnight candle that burns for love
Beneath the gentle gaze of the moon,
I’m the prayer spoken upon a pillow
That will softly float into a woman’s room.
My senses will one day all disappear
Into the fragrance of her perfume,
I will be the single teardropp of water
Entering the essence of her ocean for eternity.

The continent's a tamed ox, with all its mountains,
Powerful and servile; here is for plowland, here is
for park and playground, this helpless
Cataract for power; it lies behind us at heel
All docile between this ocean and the other. If
flood troubles the lowlands, or earthquake
Cracks walls, it is only a slave's blunder or the
natural
Shudder of a new made slave. Therefore we happy
masters about the solstice
Light bonfires on the shore and celebrate our power.
The bay's necklaced with fire, the bombs make crystal
fountains in the air, the rockets
Shower swan's-neck over the night water.... I
imagined
The stars drew apart a little as if from troublesome
children, coldly compassionate;
But the ocean neither seemed astonished nor in awe:
If this had been the little sea that Xerxes whipped,
how it would have feared us.
Submitted by Holt

Orange slice
inside
my mouth
zesty juicy
and
squirting sweetness
from inside out
feeding me more
succulent dreams
streaming out
from luscious
imaginations
hidden behind
invisible lovers
teasing
my heart
till invading
sparkles sit
on the tip
of my tongue
with ripe
bright oranges
I slowly lap up
for more
of the same
reviving delicious
self pleasing
enjoyment on eating
a fruit as deep
as the ocean of lust

Liquid dusk looking back through me
reflecting back the starlight that catches itself
tangling in droplets of water that freckle your skin
lifting them with my tongue
I taste hope and salt and the glistening sweet smell of you.
When rest my cheek against the bleach-sun shell of your chest
I hear a fluttering sigh and the sound of your breath
is the ocean.

i wish i could swim the pacific ocean and back.
and when i came back to sit in front of a burning burning fire
until it dried me to the bone.
and for my skeleton to be hung above your bed
to act as a catcher of your night terrors
and it would work
because you would know that i was magical.
because i swam the whole pacific ocean and back.
for you.

The iris
dances
unafraid
before the God
of Thunder.
“Perun! ”
the iris sings to him.
“Perunika! ”
he laughs at her.
Here in the magic
ocean of the sky
a thousand mists
clothe their laughter.
*******
Perun is the Slavic God of Thunder and the Iris is his flower...thus Perunika.

Upon the crest of a wave I see
hidden memories held within.
New ones created, from every bough
on every ship, that travels bound
for some new pasture.
Such hope and yet such loss,
is the ocean's promise.
It's force men think can be tamed.
Yet that is what the ocean
wants you to believe.
It can bite and snap,
or it can be calm and cool.
A million promises made,
and broken upon it's shores.
A billion memories made
and broken, lying on it's floors.
The ocean is natures untameable force.
(C)  Victoria Elizabeth Hughes September 2005

Wings over the ocean
Footprints in the sand.
Quiet voices in the softest breeze
Feet balancing on land.
Gentle thoughts and gestures
No voyage as yet planned.
Wings over the ocean
Then soaring o'er dry land.

DER teufel's los in Bal Mabille,
Dere's hell-fire in de air,
De fiddlers can't blay noding else
Boot Orphee aux Enfers:
Vot makes de beoples howl mit shoy?
Da capo - Bravo! - bis!!
It's a Deutscher aus Amerika:
Hans Breitmann in Paris.
Dere's silber toughts vot might hafe peen,
Dere's golden deeds vot must:
Der Hans ish come to Frankenland
On one eternal bust.
Der same old rowdy Argonaut
Vot hoont de same oldt vleece,
A hafin all de foon dere ish-
Der Breitmann in Paris.
Mit a gal on eider shoulder
A holdin py his beard,
He tantz de Cancan, sacrament!
Dill all das Volk vas skeered.
Like a roarin hippopatamos,
Mit a kangarunic shoomp,
Dey feared he'd smash de Catacombs,
Each dime der Breitmann bump.
De pretty liddle cocodettes
Lofe efery dings ish new,
'D'ou vient il donc ce grand M'sieu?
O sacre nom de Dieu!'
In fain dey kicks deir veet on high,
And sky like vlyin geese,
Dey can not kick de hat afay
From Breitmann in Paris.
O vhere vas id der Breitmann life?
Oopon de Rond Point gay,
Vot shdreet lie shoost pehind his house?
La rue de Rabelais.
Aroundt de corner Harper's shtands
Vhere Yankee drinks dey mill,
Vhile shdraight ahet, agross de shdreet,
Der lies de Bal Mabille.
Id's all along de Elysees,
Id's oop de Boulevarce,
He's sampled all de weinshops,
Und he's vinked at efery garce.
Dou schveet plack-silken Gabrielle,
O let me learn from dee,
If 'tis in lofe - or absinthe drunks,
Dat dis wild ghost may pe?
Und dou may'st kneel in Notre Dame,
Und veep away dy sin,
Vhile I go vight at Barriere balls,
Oontil mine poots cave in;
Boot if ve pray, or if ve sin-
Vhile nodings ish refuse,
Tis all de same in Paris here,
So long ash l'on s'amuse.
O life, mein dear, at pest or vorst,
Ish boot a vancy ball,
Its cratest shoy a vild gallop,
Vhere madness goferns all.
Und should dey toorn ids gas-light off,
Und nefer leafe a shbark,
Sdill I'd find my vay to Heafen - or-
Dy lips, lofe, in de dark.
O crown your het mit roses, lofe!
O keep a liddel sprung!
Oonendless wisdom ish but dis:
To go it vhile you're yung!
Und Age vas nefer coom to him,
To him Spring plooms afresh,
Who finds a livin' spirit in
Der Teufel und der Flesh.

In France (to baffle thieves and murderers)
A journey takes two days of passport work
At least. The plan's sometimes a tedious one,
But bears its fruit. Because, the other day,
In passing by the Morgue, we saw a man
(The thing is common, and we never should
Have known of it, only we passed that way)
Who had been stabbed and tumbled in the Seine,
Where he had stayed some days. The face was black,
And, like a negro's, swollen; all the flesh
Had furred, and broken into a green mould.
Now, very likely, he who did the job
Was standing among those who stood with us,
To look upon the corpse. You fancy him—
Smoking an early pipe, and watching, as
An artist, the effect of his last work.
This always if it had not struck him that
'Twere best to leave while yet the body took
Its crust of rot beneath the Seine. It may:
But, if it did not, he can now remain
Without much fear. Only, if he should want
To travel, and have not his passport yet,
(Deep dogs these French police!) he may be caught.
Therefore you see (lest, being murderers,
We should not have the sense to go before
The thing were known, or to stay afterwards)
There is good reason why—having resolved
To start for Belgium—we were kept three days
To learn about the passports first, then do
As we had learned. This notwithstanding, in
The fullness of the time 'tis come to pass.

Kind Paris
under my feet.
The clack of heels
on a cobblestone walk
along the river
encompassed with concepts
from centuries of artists.
The streets,
they sing,
with the accordian
and accoustic.
Kind Paris
under my feet
and my theatrical
and melodic tapping
of heels on wet cobblestones.

This Paris Hilton thing makes me sad
So much of it comes from who's her dad
I don't defend actions that we know are bad
But grieve that the lives of the rest of us
Have become so vacuous
Watching this media circus has become a fad.

We make plans
setting them in motion
picking them
as if apples from a tree
ripe, sweet apples...
Paris in Springtime
yes, that is what we talked about
unfolding our dreams
in places and time
under a foreign sky
getting lost
in the soul of her city streets
stringing together hands
unwrapping our moments
in gloamings gaze
lounging at a local cafe
nibbling on edibles
laughing, talking
blanketing each other
in thought
garnishing our love
in contentment
filling up
once empty spaces
lying together between silky sheets...
It is you
I know it now
a resounding yes,
you were right all along
I have found you in the rhythms of my heart.
copyright @ 12/05/2005

never
even in calmer times
have I ever
dreamed of
bicycling through that
city
wearing a
beret
and
Camus
always
pisse d
me
off.

Paris so beautiful at night
And during the day is beautiful also
The Eiffel Tower is located in the center of Paris
But all the flowers in Paris are blooming in the parks
And at la seine
Yes spring is heret in Paris
And I am enjoying  the spring
But the flowers in the parks here in Paris are beautiful
Because they are a show of colors

Where waving Pines the brows of Ida shade,
The swain young Paris half supinely laid,
Saw the loose Flocks thro' shrubs unnumber'd rove
And Piping call'd them to the gladded grove.
'Twas there he met the Message of the skies,
That he the Judge of Beauty deal the prize.
The Message known, one Love with anxious mind,
To make his Mother guard the time assign'd,
Drew forth her proud white Swans, and trac'd the pair
That wheel her Chariot in the purple air:
A golden Bow behind his shoulder bends,
A golden Quiver at his side depends,
Pointing to these he nods, with fearless State,
And bids her safely meet the grand Debate.
Another Love proceeds with anxious care
To make his Iv'ry sleek the shining hair,
Moves the loose Curls and bids the Forehead shew
In full Expansion all its native snow.
A third enclasps the many colour'd Cest
And rul'd by Fancy sets the silver Vest,
When to her Sons with intermingl'd sighs
The Goddess of the rosy lips applies.
'Tis now my darling boys a time to shew
The love you feel, the filial aids you owe:
Yet would we think that any dar'd to strive
For Charms, when Venus and her Loves alive?
Or should the prize of beauty be deni'd,
Has Beauty's Empress ought to boast beside?
And ting'd with Poison, pleasing while it harms,
My Darts I trusted to your infant arms;
If, when your hands have arch'd the golden Bow,
The World's great Ruler bending owns the blow,
Let no contending Form invade my due,
Tall Juno's Mein, nor Pallas Eyes of blew.
But grac'd with Triumph, to the Paphian shore,
Your Venus bears the Palms of Conquest o'er,
And joyful see my hundred Altars there
With costly Gums perfume the wanton air.
While thus the Cupids hear the Cyprian Dame,
The groves resounded where a Goddess came.
The warlike Pallas march'd with mighty stride,
Her Shield forgot, her Helmet laid aside.
Her Hair unbound, in curls and order flow'd,
And Peace, or something like, her Visage shew'd;
So with her eyes serene and hopeful haste,
The long stretch'd Allys of the Wood she trac'd.
But where the Woods a second Entrance found,
With Scepter'd Pomp, and Golden Glory crown'd
The stately Juno stalk'd, to reach the Seat,
And hear the Sentence in the last Debate,
And long, severely long resent the Grove;
In this, what boots it, she's the wife of Jove.
Arm'd with a Grace, at length, secure to win,
The lovely Venus smiling enters in;
All sweet and shining near the Youth she drew,
Her rosy Neck ambrosial odours threw;
The sacred Scents diffus'd among the leaves,
Ran down the Woods and fill'd their hoary Caves;
The Charms, so am'rous all, and each so great,
The conquer'd Judge no longer keeps his Seat;
Oppress'd with Light, he drops his weary'd eyes
And fears he should be thought to doubt the Prize.

Wedding in Paris
Coming out of the church after the wedding there were
smiles and cameras clicked, from the steps I could look
down into a park, a tramp was going through a bin
looking for something to eat, he found and ate what looked
like a half eaten pizza. With all the clatter going on
I slipped away, had a whisky in a bar across the road,
saw the tramp coming out of the park, my idea was to give
him some money for food, but I was self-conscious and
hated the thought of looking patronizing so I had another
whisky instead.

I am the warp, you are the weft
I am the ground, you are the step
I am the lantern, you are the light
I am the eyes, you are the sight
I am the touch, you are the sensation
I am the drum, you are the reverbration
I am the mirror, you are the reflection
I am the drop, you are the ocean
I am the spirit, you are the soul
I am the silly heart that you stole

Beware, my Love
Of the thunder
That we will encounter
When we touch
Beware, my love
Of the Rain
The outpourings of the pain
For the lost time
Beware, my love
Of the lightning
The resurrection that it will bring
Of our dormant desires
Beware, my Love
Of the flood
The mingling of our blood
When our skins dissolve
Beware, my Love
Of the reverbration
The resounding celebration
Of Our eternal Embrace

A moment of passion so easily shared,
with no fear or regret.
The memories flood through my mind,
a moment of passion I'll never forget.
A moment of passion is like a drug,
it takes me so high.
Needing to get another fix,
a moment of passion can never lie
A moment of passion when we are alone,
you desire it too.
Unable to control it,
a moment of passion shared with you.

Your kiss was the first and everlasting
impression you had given me, that
I knew would last a lifetime
Through the innocence of our hearts
we were babes in arms, waltzing to
the soft music of love, dusted with a
touch of pasion glazed  with fire that
torched each of our souls
Its funny how time can surpass most
unpleasant memories, and at the same
time can capsulate the moments that
brought us to our peak of happiness,
but it yet has found a way to  remember
not to forget your soft burning lips sealing
my ageless desire of innocent pasion.....

There is no crime in passion,
only if jealousy perceives it be.
Passion means love,
an outpouring of emotions there.
The green-eyed monster
only arises
if an angry confrontation flares.
(18 June 2007)

I hadn't seen her in close to a year
And so...we met for a simple lunch
I brought tuna sandwiches, strawberries and lattes
She brought her lovely smile!
I noticed that she had lost weight
And she seemd pale, to what I was used to
And the sparkle in her eye...
Was hidden...
We hugged, and then chatted
She was a dear friend...always there for me
And I had tried to always be there for her...
Except once...
I had long ago learned not to pass judgement
As we chatted, we kept the topics light
How was she doing?
How was my work?
How were my kids?
And, as we chatted, my mind wandered
Back to happier times...
She had always had such passion...
Passion for life...and passion for him
Their love had been the kind of passion
That you read about in romance novels!
That...rock you to the core...
Sweep you off your feet...
Rollercoaster ride! !
Secretly, I had always been envious
Of passion that strong...
My life paled in comparison
My marriage had become...
A business partnership...
And my passion...it lay deeply buried...
But the kind of passion that they had...
was also dark, and stormy at times
There had been several break ups
And then reunions...
But now...it was over...forever
And she was learning how to live her life
Without him
I thought that the sparkle in her eye
Must have gone, around the same time he did
The situation gripped me, and I fought back tears
With a lump in my throat
I couldn't help but notice
All the background noises
No birds, or babbling brooks for us today...
No...something far more sinister...
Clangs, bangs...and the odd shout
It was the end of our time together
And as we rose, we hugged again
And she clung to me
As though she never wanted to let go
And I never wanted to let go of her
If I could have taken her with me..
Then and there...I would have
She walked away...
Turned and waved a little wave
And I thought I saw
A tiny sparkle in her eye...once again
But then I realized it was just a tear
As I left, I reflected on the situation
Brought about by passion...such passion...
She had loved him...passionately
She had killed him...passionately!
Ohhhhh...what passion! !
(HW/31 May,2007)

PASSION TOUCHED HER LIPS
Passion touched her lips
Words flooded his sexuality
Unique his need sustained
His every need understood!
Understanding his umpteen change of moods
Her heart in true love…….
Can there be a paradise sweeter?
Than the desire for him in quest
Warrior home at last?
Today is captive
In the ocean of this whirlwind world
Tomorrow spreads its wings
Bringing hope in its tail end
The sweep of joy
Keeps you alive
“Present” presented to you
To cherish! !
Hope is the rope
That spurns the heart to action
Frozen camera
Perhaps stilled you to the present!
Taking the heart
On a flight
Where love grew
With each day’s passing!
Your love encased
Fragile I no more……..
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~malinikadir
(this poem is written for my hubby....in a marriage of 25's standing)

It reasons the warmth when chilled
Gracious delight to know the rising sun
to be shined as when quivering by the frost
when intense by the wind shedding the pains
the woes when alone may be flicked by
yet it rocks her up by shadows as dark
for all the raved up alphabets as when learned
whispering the love as when rambled
by the passion through latticed window
the light when goes away flicking bye
shadows as melting saddened by the glooms
into the room of its repose as wrinkled
yet in silence poised by the pretensions

Where is my passion
Far too much pain
Where is my passion
Must I love in vain?
Where is my passion
I need must know
Where is my passion
I want so much to grow
Where is my passion
Lost in your lips
Where is my passion
I feel for your kiss
Where is my passion
Lost in your eyes
Where is my passion
Release me to fly
Where is my passion
There in your hands
Where is my passion
Touch me…expand
Where is my passion
Please…be a man

When I wake up from my bed in the morning
My saturate eyes open slowly and welcomes the morning sun
Then I feel warm and comfortable at peace of mind
The morning smell of the earth reminds me my childhood
The wetness of flora brings me cool breeze.
I was born in this universe with peaceful nature around me
Then, I always felt that I was a star on my own brightness.
Learned, the love and kindness brings me a peace of mind
Learned, the prayers for God brings me a peace of mind
Learned, the help for helpless brings me a peace of mind
Learned, the life of peace brings me a peace of mind
When my saturate eyes close slowly and welcomes the silent night
Then I fall sleep comfortably at peace of mind while praying God
to have another peaceful day.

Now, God be thanked Who has matched us with His hour,
And caught our youth, and wakened us from sleeping,
With hand made sure, clear eye, and sharpened power,
To turn, as swimmers into cleanness leaping,
Glad from a world grown old and cold and weary,
Leave the sick hearts that honour could not move,
And half-men, and their dirty songs and dreary,
And all the little emptiness of love!
Oh! we, who have known shame, we have found release there,
Where there's no ill, no grief, but sleep has mending,
Naught broken save this body, lost but breath;
Nothing to shake the laughing heart's long peace there
But only agony, and that has ending;
And the worst friend and enemy is but Death.

Where the mountains touch the sky,
Where poets DREAM, where eagles fly,
A secret place above the crowd,
Just beneath a silver-lined cloud.
Lift your eyes to a snowy peak,
And see the soon-to-be we seek.
Whisper DREAMS and let them rise,
To the mountains old and wise.
Climbers climb, it's time to try,
Where the mountains touch the sky.
Take me there. Oh take me now,
Someway, Someday, Somewhere, Somehow.
Where the ocean meets the sky,
Where mermaid dance, where seagulls fly,
A place in DREAMS I know so well,
The sea inside a single shell.
Far across the living sea,
A pale blue possibility,
Beyond the castles made of sand,
Tomorrow in a small child's hand.
Only DREAMERS need apply,
Where the ocean meets the sky.
Take me there. Oh take me now,
Someway, Someday, Somewhere, Somehow.
A common ground for one and all,
Behind the crystal waterfall,
Where Peace flows like a mighty stream,
Like Dr. King I have a DREAM.
Imagine such a goal in sight,
For red and yellow, black and white…
New Delhi, Beijing, Kenya, Rome,
Earth is the place that we call home.
Baghdad, Belfast, Tel Aviv,
One race HUMAN, we still believe,
Come DREAM with me...
Where the forests reach the sky,
Wake to DREAMS, and don’t be shy.
We’ll DREAM the world a thorn-less rose;
We’ll plant then watch it as it grows.
We’ll conquer hate with DREAMS of hope,
We’ll DREAM one big kaleidoscope.
Whisper now; let the DREAM begin,
It's time to trust the truth within.
This is where we seek and find…
A place called PEACE for humankind.
DREAM on DREAMERS, hopes are high,
Where the forests reach the sky.
Take me there. Oh take me now,
Someway, Someday, Somewhere, Somehow.
Now, listen close, the future calls...
'Build your bridges and tear down walls! '
For time has taught and so it seems,
Realities are born of DREAMS!
Whisper DREAMS and let them rise,
To the mountains old and wise.

He stood, a worn-out City clerk —
Who'd toil'd, and seen no holiday,
For forty years from dawn to dark —
Alone beside Caermarthen Bay.
He felt the salt spray on his lips;
Heard children's voices on the sands;
Up the sun's path he saw the ships
Sail on and on to other lands;
And laugh'd aloud. Each sight and sound
To him was joy too deep for tears;
He sat him on the beach, and bound
A blue bandana round his ears
And thought how, posted near his door,
His own green door on Camden Hill,
Two bands at least, most likely more,
Were mingling at their own sweet will
Verdi with Vance. And at the thought
He laugh'd again, and softly drew
That Morning Herald that he'd bought
Forth from his breast, and read it through.

He took a frayed hat from his head,
And “Peace on Earth” was what he said.
“A morsel out of what you’re worth,
And there we have it: Peace on Earth.
Not much, although a little more
Than what there was on earth before
I’m as you see, I’m Ichabod,—
But never mind the ways I’ve trod;
I’m sober now, so help me God.”
I could not pass the fellow by.
“Do you believe in God?” said I;
“And is there to be Peace on Earth?”
“Tonight we celebrate the birth,”
He said, “of One who died for men;
The Son of God, we say. What then?
Your God, or mine? I’d make you laugh
Were I to tell you even half
That I have learned of mine today
Where yours would hardly seem to stay.
Could He but follow in and out
Some anthropoids I know about,
The god to whom you may have prayed
Might see a world He never made.”
“Your words are flowing full,” said I;
“But yet they give me no reply;
Your fountain might as well be dry.”
“A wiser One than you, my friend,
Would wait and hear me to the end;
And for his eyes a light would shine
Through this unpleasant shell of mine
That in your fancy makes of me
A Christmas curiosity.
All right, I might be worse than that;
And you might now be lying flat;
I might have done it from behind,
And taken what there was to find.
Don’t worry, for I’m not that kind.
‘Do I believe in God?’ Is that
The price tonight of a new hat?
Has he commanded that his name
Be written everywhere the same?
Have all who live in every place
Identified his hidden face?
Who knows but he may like as well
My story as one you may tell?
And if he show me there be Peace
On Earth, as there be fields and trees
Outside a jail-yard, am I wrong
If now I sing him a new song?
Your world is in yourself, my friend,
For your endurance to the end;
And all the Peace there is on Earth
Is faith in what your world is worth,
And saying, without any lies,
Your world could not be otherwise.”
“One might say that and then be shot,”
I told him; and he said: “Why not?”
I ceased, and gave him rather more
Than he was counting of my store.
“And since I have it, thanks to you,
Don’t ask me what I mean to do,”
Said he. “Believe that even I
Would rather tell the truth than lie—
On Christmas Eve. No matter why.”
His unshaved, educated face,
His inextinguishable grace.
And his hard smile, are with me still,
Deplore the vision as I will;
For whatsoever he be at,
So droll a derelict as that
Should have at least another hat.

Sweet Peace, where dost thou dwell? I humbly crave,
Let me once know.
I sought thee in a secret cave,
And ask'd, if Peace were there,
A hollow wind did seem to answer, No:
Go seek elsewhere.
I did; and going did a rainbow note:
Surely, thought I,
This is the lace of Peace's coat:
I will search out the matter.
But while I looked the clouds immediately
Did break and scatter.
Then went I to a garden and did spy
A gallant flower,
The crown-imperial: Sure, said I,
Peace at the root must dwell.
But when I digged, I saw a worm devour
What showed so well.
At length I met a rev'rend good old man;
Whom when for Peace
I did demand, he thus began:
There was a Prince of old
At Salem dwelt, who lived with good increase
Of flock and fold.
He sweetly lived; yet sweetness did not save
His life from foes.
But after death out of his grave
There sprang twelve stalks of wheat;
Which many wond'ring at, got some of those
To plant and set.
It prospered strangely, and did soon disperse
Through all the earth:
For they that taste it do rehearse
That virtue lies therein;
A secret virtue, bringing peace and mirth
By flight of sin.
Take of this grain, which in my garden grows,
And grows for you;
Make bread of it: and that repose
And peace, which ev'ry where
With so much earnestness you do pursue,
Is only there.

Folks greeting those they meet.
Children playing in the street.
People working hand in hand
For the better of the land.
Atonement with the great I Am.
Lion resting with a lamb.
World leaders shaking hands—
In truth—not because they can.
Sacrificing at all cost
To minimize potential lost.
Such, the face of true peace,
Would bring the world much relief.
May strife and fighting ever cease
And “true” peace be increased.
©

Trust and treachery, wisdom, folly,
Madness, mirth and melancholy,
Love and hatred, thrift and pillage,
All are housed in every village.
And in such a world’s mixed being,
Where may peace, from ruin fleeing,
Find fit shelter and inherit
All the calm of her own merit?
In a bark of gentle motion
Sailing on the summer ocean?
There worst war the tempest wages,
And the hungry whirlpool rages.
In some lonely new-world bower
Hidden like a forest flower?
There, too, there, to fray the stranger
Stalks the wild-eyed savage, danger!
In some Alpine cot, by fountains
Flowing from snow-shining mountains?
There the avalanches thunder,
Crushing all that lieth under!
In some hermit-tent, pitched lowly
Mid the tombs of prophets holy?
There to harry and annoy her
Roams the infidel destroyer.
In palatial chambers gilded,
Guarded round with towers high-builded?
Change may enter these to-morrow,
And with change may enter sorrow.
Find, O peace, thy home of beauty
In the steadfast heart of duty,
Dwelling ever there, and seeing
God through every phase of being

"This war is a terrible thing," he said,
"With its countless numbers of needless dead;
A futile warfare it seems to me,
Fought for no principle I can see.
Alas, that thousands of hearts should bleed
For naught but a tyrant's boundless greed!"
* * * *
Said the wholesale grocer, in righteous mood,
As he went to adulterate salable food.
Spake as follows the merchant king:
"Isn't this war a disgusting thing?
Heartless, cruel, and useless, too;
It doesn't seem that it can be true.
Think of the misery, want and fear!
We ought to be grateful we've no war here.
* * * *
"Six a week"--to a girl--"That's flat!
I can get a thousand to work for that."

The waves roll back and forth,
crashing. Always crashing.
It crests and then falls,
tumbling down and uprooting the serenity of placement beneath it.
So too do bits of hardened sand and stone get washed away,
exposing the soft clay beneath.
Pounded and damaged, a hurt looking life.
The marmoset turns and blinks; a slow, painstaking blink.
And so, the rain begins.

Frequently the wood mix pink -
More often not to wood on ground,
Hands color, of the root I, stumble on.
Winds frequent to, more the sail brought
up, figure head of Rosy sun, lifts split sea.
Earth bursts to round, undressed in deepest blue;
Ships brown oak one leg on rail, hardly long ago.

The pink of the sunset was like the droop
From the shoulders like the folds in soft
Rays gleamed like diamonds in gold red
From the below sand white was the skirt
From the sharp of creases into the curves
The dunes of sand had shifted overnight
Like the thin line on the lip the shore had
For the surfing ocean of desires spoken time
The lumination was to the night in contrast
On first fingers like rings of the lady in pink
Mermaid to the one on the rock on the amber
Ambition had restraints but may the beauty
Her hand for the kiss before wine of madness
Her legs like widening clayman’s sculpture
Between the legs succulent petals and butterflies
She had the mounds of ice with tips transparent
An evening with music will she adore the night
Mushrooms and prawns and dances like fish
With smooth flexion will her lips on the chain
She but knows how to love from fairy’s land
22/6/2009

Unfurled flitting pink
butterfly flags flutter
in forests
near
unfurled flags of
phlox
in the meadows of Fairfax

In the shade of my live oak tree,
Drinking pink lemonade.
Just about as laid back as can be,
Oh boy, I really got it made.
A little tart, a little sweet, ,
Best batch Elvira's ever made.
Time to get off my tired feet,
With a cold glass of lemonade.
I could use a cookie, I suppose,
But I don't want to leave this shade.
Maybe later, after I repose,
Right now I'll sip my lemonade.
8/27/10 Alton Texas

At night I think pink looks depressing…
Like a school girls lumpy blancmange
There is something churlish un-exotic
Unless it's of, the most vibrant - colour.
Pink is a misrepresenting, camouflage—
Pink dressing worn is quite un-erotic
At night I think pink looks gruelling…
And on any given dull day, quite dour
Very much not representing,
Springs first cherry blossom flower.

I wash my hands, in your ink, fast between a
valley, it clings to me, lives in me, my pen.
and Waves, that run, i float on, the rose and hand,
and the sun on my face, this rose a tender bud.
I cannot share my forest, only you may know your
face, and rose petals find new lips, alive in silk.
Pink full lips glow red and they flood my scents
with folded secrets, and this nose, this tounge burn.
Orchestras, arrangements, notes that seize a score
of music cleft with bars, and  pink, red and sun shine.
Pink is always, never one to leave you on your own, to
find your way that is your home, out side, and Rush.
Pink words are royal words to some, it is rare, to know
another forum and compromise, this norm, why is to tired.
I am the male, i will wear her pink, it is my crown.
Roses are never found confined, when i can make her proud.

I grew even pinker, with each
passing verb, she tossed and
slung at me.
They were bar bless, this crown
of thorns, upon her head she tried
to wear so well.
I bled, but I could not show the
harm,
flirting is so dangerous, exciting
In all honesty, never boring.
So pretty Misses, if the vines start
to bulge, and you turn red instead
of pink, stop and please try and
reconsider,
all the mail, returned to sender as
a tease, from all the males.

A dainty little girl skipped across the park
Dressed in pink from ribbons to shoes
Her Mother followed close behind
Not many people cast a glance at them
All were busy with their own wards
There was however a man in a wheelchair
Who seemed completely fascinated with her
His eyes were focussed on her intently
His attendant did not appear to notice
That a sense of calm had descended on him
There was even a hint of a smile on his troubled face
'Alisha' – he finally shouted to everyone’s surprise
For he had not uttered a word in years
Now he was calling his young daughter long dead
In a fatal accident along with her mother and brother
He, the father managed to survive or just about
For he was crippled and he had lost his speech
But the little girl in pink seemed to have changed that
She reminded him of his very own child and the fact
That she turned around and gave him a big angelic smile
Only convinced him further that there was life after death
That Alisha was reborn in a new family, was a happy thought
Much later he did comment that – it was the power of pink
That changed his life on that fateful day in the park.
.

Waiting on Death Row
People coming in overalls
Taking me to the gas chamber
Scuffling of feet
They took him down the hallway
Feeling everyone's heartbeat
The central control of the soul
Batons and retro-tons
Ingrown toenails
One time all around you
All round you, bump-bump
Save my air, save my air
My air, my air
Air, water, trees
Machines eating the night
Energy moving
Nuclear fires
Burning reactors on my gate
Fires of hell are burning
Come home
Can you see
Can you say
That you say
That you really love this place?

The beautiful, the fair, the elegant,
Is that which pleases us, says Kant,
Without a thought of interest or advantage.
I used to watch men when they spoke of beauty
And measure their enthusiasm. One
An old man, seeing a ( ) setting sun,
Praised it ( ) a certain sense of duty
To the calm evening and his time of life.
I know another man that never says a Beauty
But of a horse; ( )
Men seldom speak of beauty, beauty as such,
Not even lovers think about it much.
Women of course consider it for hours
In mirrors; ( )
A shrapnel ball -
Just where the wet skin glistened when he swam -
Like a fully-opened sea-anemone.
We both said 'What a beauty! What a beauty, lad'
I knew that in that flower he saw a hope
Of living on, and seeing again the roses of his home.
Beauty is that which pleases and delights,
Not bringing personal advantage - Kant.
But later on I heard
A canker worked into that crimson flower
And that he sank with it
And laid it with the anemones off Dover.

with love
give me your hand
some stranger
is fiction than truth
without love
I'm justa has
been away
too long in the tooth.

I THINK it better that in times like these
A poet's mouth be silent, for in truth
We have no gift to set a statesman right;
He has had enough of medding who can please
A young girl in the indolence of her youth,
Or an old man upon a winter's night.

She asks me
What is a poem?
Her shapely nose,
Her lips like two slices of water melon,
Her eyes reflecting clear blue sky,
Her thick hair like dark grey clouds,
Her horizon-like forehead
Are poems.
Frolicking of children,
Gossiping old women,
Cheering buddies gathered to spend an evening together,
Waiting travellers with carry-on bags in hand,
Strolling couples in a park,  picnickers,
Are all features of a poem.
Lively sunlight warming the sanitorium stairs,
A nude poster,
A gypsy girl,
Are poems.
Ramble through a wonderland,
Laughter at an amusement park,
Still blue lake,
Scream of herons slipping on the rocks,
Thunder of a water fall,
Symphony of four seasons,
Song of pure rains,
Silent hunch of rainbow, arching over all,
Are poems.
Children of Bosnia
All are words of a poem.
Prior to gang rape
Women were preambles to poems,
Now they are complete poems.
Suppressed scream of a prisoner
In torture chamber
Is also a poem.
The blood ablaze
In the snow clad valley of Kashmir
Is fast becoming a poem.
Death of the starving in Somalia is a poem.
Coffin of the peace keeping soldier
Is a real-life poem.
She asks me, what is a poem?
Shall I tell her
That her poem inscribing fingers are too a poem
And her handwriting,
Her handsome portrait,
Her brown sandal
Even destiny under her feet
Are a poem.
She knows!
She is a poem to me clad in mauve.
Still she asks me
What is a poem?
(1992, Translated from Urdu by Samina Amjad, Translation reviewed by Lillian Thomas)

Lana Turner has collapsed!
I was trotting along and suddenly
it started raining and snowing
and you said it was hailing
but hailing hits you on the head
hard so it was really snowing and
raining and I was in such a hurry
to meet you but the traffic
was acting exactly like the sky
and suddenly I see a headline
LANA TURNER HAS COLLAPSED!
there is no snow in Hollywood
there is no rain in California
I have been to lots of parties
and acted perfectly disgraceful
but I never actually collapsed
oh Lana Turner we love you get up

The opening scene.  The yellow, coal-fed fog
Uncurling over the tainted city river,
A young girl rowing and her anxious father
Scavenging for corpses.  Funeral meats.  The clever
Abandoned orphan.  The great athletic killer
Sulking in his tent.  As though all stories began
With someone dying.
When her mother died,
My mother refused to attend the funeral--
In fact, she sulked in her tent all through the year
Of the old lady's dying.  I don't know why:
She said, because she loved her mother so much
She couldn't bear to see the way the doctors,
Or her father, or--someone--was letting her mother die.
"Follow your saint, follow with accents sweet;
Haste you, sad notes, fall at her flying feet."
She fogs things up, she scavenges the taint.
Possibly that's the reason I write these poems.
But they did speak:  on the phone.  Wept and argued,
So fiercely one or the other often cut off
A sentence by hanging up in rage--like lovers,
But all that year she never saw her face.
They lived on the same block, four doors apart.
"Absence my presence is; strangeness my grace;
With them that walk against me is my sun."
"Synagogue" is a word I never heard,
We called it shul, the Yiddish word for school.
Elms, terra-cotta, the ocean a few blocks east.
"Lay institution":  she taught me we didn't think
God lived in it.  The rabbi is just a teacher.
But what about the hereditary priests,
Descendants of the Cohanes of the Temple,
Like Walter Holtz--I called him Uncle Walter,
When I was small.  A big man with a face
Just like a boxer dog or a cartoon sergeant.
She told me whenever he helped a pretty woman
Try on a shoe in his store, he'd touch her calf
And ask her, "How does that feel?"  I was too little
To get the point but pretended to understand.
"Desire, be steady; hope is your delight,
An orb wherein no creature can ever be sorry."
She didn't go to my bar mitzvah, either.
I can't say why:  she was there, and then she wasn't.
I looked around before I mounted the steps
To chant that babble and the speech the rabbi wrote
And there she wasn't, and there was Uncle Walter
The Cohane frowning with his doggy face:
"She's missing her own son's musaf."  Maybe she just
Doesn't like rituals.  Afterwards, she had a reason
I don't remember.  I wasn't upset:  the truth
Is, I had decided to be the clever orphan
Some time before.  By now, it's all a myth.
What is a myth but something that seems to happen
Always for the first time over and over again?
And ten years later, she missed my brother's, too.
I'm sorry:  I think it was something about a hat.
"Hot sun, cool fire, tempered with sweet air,
Black shade, fair nurse, shadow my white hair;
Shine, sun; burn, fire; breathe, air, and ease me."
She sees the minister of the Nation of Islam
On television, though she's half-blind in one eye.
His bow tie is lime, his jacket crocodile green.
Vigorously he denounces the Jews who traded in slaves,
The Jews who run the newspapers and the banks.
"I see what this guy is mad about now," she says,
"It must have been some Jew that sold him the suit."
"And the same wind sang and the same wave whitened,
And or ever the garden's last petals were shed,
In the lips that had whispered, the eyes that had lightened."
But when they unveiled her mother's memorial stone,
Gathered at the graveside one year after the death,
According to custom, while we were standing around
About to begin the prayers, her car appeared.
It was a black car; the ground was deep in snow.
My mother got out and walked toward us, across
The field of gravestones capped with snow, her coat
Black as the car, and they waited to start the prayers
Until she arrived.  I think she enjoyed the drama.
I can't remember if she prayed or not,
But that may be the way I'll remember her best:
Dark figure, awaited, attended, aware, apart.
"The present time upon time passëd striketh;
With Phoebus's wandering course the earth is graced.
The air still moves, and by its moving, cleareth;
The fire up ascends, and planets feedeth;
The water passeth on, and all lets weareth;
The earth stands still, yet change of changes breedeth."

While crowds of princes your deserts proclaim,
Proud in their number to enrol your name;
While emperors to you commit their cause,
And Anna's praises crown the vast applause;
Accept, great leader, what the Muse recites,
That in ambitious verse attempts your fights.
Fir'd and transported with a theme so new,
Ten thousand wonders opening to my view
Shine forth at once; sieges and storms appear,
And wars and conquests fill the' important year:
Rivers of blood I see, and hills of slain,
And Iliad rising out of one campaign.
The haughty Gaul beheld, with towering pride,
His ancient bounds enlarg'd on every side;
Pyrene's lofty barriers were subdued,
And in the midst of his wide empire stood;
Ausonia's states, the victor to restrain,
Opposed their Alps and Apennines in vain,
Nor found themselves, with strength of rocks immur'd,
Behind their everlasting hills secur'd;
The rising Danube its long race began,
And half its course through the new conquests ran;
Amaz'd and anxious for her soverign's fates,
Germania trembled through a hundred states;
Great Leopold himself was seiz'd with fear;
He gaz'd around, but saw no succour near;
He gaz'd, and half-abandon'd to despair.
His hopes on heaven, and confidence in pray;
To Britain's queen the nations turn their eyes,
On her resolves the western world relies,
Confiding still, amidst its dire alarms,
In Anna's conncils, and in Churchill's arms.
Thrice happy Britain, from the kingdoms rent,
To fit the guardian of the continent!
That sees her bravest son advanc'd so high,
And flourishing so near her prince's eye;
Thy favourites grow not up by fortune's sport,
Or from the crimes or follies of a court;
On the firm basis of desert they rise,
From long-try'd faith and friendship's holy tyes:
Their soverign's well-distinguish'd smiles they share,
Her ornaments in peace, her strength in war;
The nation thanks them with a public voice,
By showers of blessings heaven approves their choice;
Envy itself is dumb, in wonder lost,
And factions strive who shall applaud them most.
Soon as soft vernal breezes warm the sky,
Britannia's colours in the zephyrs fly;
Her chief already has his march begun,
Crossing the provinces himself had won,
Till the Moselle, appearing from afar,
Retards the progress of the moving war.
Delightful stream, had nature bid her fall
In distant climes far from the perjur'd Gaul;
But now a purchase to the sword she lies;
Her harvests for uncertain owners rise,
Each vineyard doubtful of its master grows,
And to the victor's bowl each vintage flows.
The discontented shades of slaughter'd hosts,
That wander'd on her banks, her heroes ghosts
Hop'd, when they saw Britannia's arms appear,
The vengeance due to their great deaths was near.
Our godlike leader, ere the stream he past,
The mighty scheme of all his labours cast,
Forming the wondrous year within his thought;
His bosom glow'd with battles yet unfought.
The long laborious march he first surveys,
And joins the distant Danube to the Maese,
Between whose floods such pathless forests grow,
Such mountains rise, so many rivers flow:
The toil looks lovely in the hero's eyes,
And danger serves but to enhance the prize.
Big with the fate of Europe, he renews
His dreadful course, and the proud foe pursues!
Infected by the burning Scorpion's heat,
the sultry gales round his chas'd temples beat,
Till on the borders of the Maine he finds
Defensive shadows, and refreshing winds.
Our British youth, with in-born freedom bold,
Unnumber'd scenes of servitude behold,
Nations of slaves, with tyranny debas'd,
(Their maker's image more than half defac'd)
Hourly instructed, as they urge their toil,
To prize their queen, and love their native soil.
Still to the rising sun they take their way
Through clouds of dust, and gain upon the day.
When now the Neckar on its friendly coast
With cooling streams revives the fainting host,
That chearfully his labours past forgets,
The mid-night watches, and the noon-day heats.
O'er prostrate towns and palaces they pass
(Now cover'd o'er with woods, and hid in grass),
Breathing revenge; whilst anger and disdain
Fire every breast, and boil in every vein:
Here shatter'd walls, like broken rocks, from far
Rise up in hideous views, the guilt of war,
Whilst here the vine o'er hills of ruin climbs,
Industrious to conceal great Bourbon's crimes.
At length the fame of England's hero drew
Eugenio to the glorious interview.
Great souls by instinct to each other turn,
Demand alliance, and in friendship burn:
A sudden friendship, while with stretch'd-out rays
They meet each other, mingling blaze with blaze,
Polish'd in courts, and harden'd in the field,
Renown'd for conquest, and in council skill'd,
Their courage dwells not in a troubled flood
Of mounting spirits, and fermenting blood;
Lodg'd in the soul, with virtue over-rul'd,
Inflam'd by reason, and by reason cool'd,
In hours of peace content to be unknown,
And only in the field of battle shown:
To souls like these, in mutual fiendship join'd,
Heaven dares intrust the cause of human-kind.
Britannia's graceful sons appear in arms,
Her harrass'd troops the hero's presence warms,
Whilst the high hills and rivers all around
With thundering peals of British shouts resound:
Doubling their speed, they march with fresh delight,
Eager for glory, and require the fight.
So the stanch hound the trembling deer pursues,
And smells his footsteps in the tainted dews,
The tedious track unraveling by degrees:
But when the scent comes warm in every breeze,
Fir'd at the near approach he shoots away
On his full stretch, and bears upon his prey.
The march concludes, the various realms are past;
Th' immortal Schellenberg appears at last:
Like hills th' aspiring ramparts rise on high,
Like valley's at their feet the trenches lie;
Batteries on batteries guard each fatal pass,
Threatening destruction; rows of hollow brass,
Tube behind tube, the dreadful entrance keep,
Whilst in thier wombs ten thousand thunders sleep,
Great Churchill owns, charm'd with the glorious sight,
His march o'er-paid by such a promis'd fight.
The western sun now shot a feeble ray,
And faintly scatter'd the remains of day:
Ev'ning approach'd; but oh what host of foes
Were never to behold that evening close!
Thickening their ranks, and wedg'd in firm array,
The close-compacted Britons win their way;
In vain the cannon their throng'd war defac'd
With tracts of death, and laid the battle waste;
Still pressing forward to the fight, they broke
Through flames of sulphur, and a night of smoke,
Till slaughter'd legions fill'd the trench below,
And bore their fierce avengers to the foe.
High on the works the mingling hosts engage;
The battle, kindled into tenfold rage,
With showers  of bullets and with storms of fire
Burns in full fury; heaps on heaps expire,
Nations with nations mix'd confus'dly die,
And lsot in one promiscuous carnage lie.
How many generous Britons meet their doom,
New to the field, and heroes in the bloom!
Th' illustrious youghts, that left their native shore
To march where Britons never march'd before
(O fatal love of fame! O glorious heat
Only destructive to the brave and great!)
After such toils o'ercome, such dangers past,
Stretch'd on Bavarian ramparts breathe their last.
But hold, my Muse, may no complaints appear
Nor blot the day with an ungrateful tear:
While Marlborough lives, Britannia's stars dispense
A friendly light, and shine in innocence.
Plunging through seas of blood his fiery steed
Where-e'er his friends retire, or foes succeed;
Those he supports, these drives to sudden flight,
And turns the various fortune of the fight.
Forbear, great man, renown'd in arms, forbear
To Brave the thickest terrors of the war,
Nor hazard thus, confus'd in crowds of foes,
Britannia's safety, and the world's repose;
Let nations anxious for thy life abate
This scorn of danger, and contempt of fate:
Thou liv'st not for thyself; thy Queen demands
Conquest and peace from thy victorious hands;
Kingdoms and empires in thy fortunes join,
And Europe's destiny depends on thine.
At length the long-disputed pass they gain
By crowded armies fortify'd in vain;
The war breaks in, the fierce Bavarians yield,
And see their camp with British legions fill'd.
So Belgian mounds bear on their shatter'd sides
The sea's whole weight increas'd with swelling tides;
But if the rushing wave a passage finds,
Enrag'd by watery moons, and warring winds,
The trembling peasant sees his country round
Cover'd with tempests, and in oceans drown'd.
The few surviving foes disperst in flight,
(Refuse of swords,a nd gleanings of a fight)
In every rustling wind the victor hear,
And Marlborough's form in every shadow fear,
Till the dark cope of night with kind embrace
Befriends the rout, and covers their disgrace.
To Donavert, with unresisted force,
The gay victorious army bends its course.
The growth of meadows, and the pride of fields,
Whatever spoils Bavaria's summer yields
(The Danube's great increase), Britannia shares,
The food of armies and support of wars:
With magazines of death, destructive balls,
And cannon doom'd to batter Landau's walls,
The victor finds each hidden cavern stor'd,
And turns their fury on their guilty Lord.
Deluded prince! how is thy greatness crost,
And all the gaudy dream of empire lost,
That proudly set thee on a fancy'd throne,
And made imaginary realms thy own!
Thy troops, that now behind the Danube join,
Shall shortly seek for shelter from the Rhine,
Nor find it there! Surrounded with alarms,
Thou hop'st the assistance fo the Gallic arms;
The Gallic arms in safety shall advance,
And crowd thy standards with the power of France,
While, to exalt thy doom, th' aspiring Gaul
Shares thy destruction, and adorns thy fall.
Unbounded courage and compassion join'd,
Tempering each other in the victor's mind,
Alternately proclaim him good and great,
And make the Hero and the Man compleat,
Long did he strive th' obdurate foe to gain
By proffer'd grace, but long he strove in vain;
Till, fir'd at length, he thinks it vain to spare
His rising wrath, and gives a loose to war.
In vengeance rous'd, the soldier fills his hand
With sword and fire, and ravages the land,
A thousand villages to ashes turns,
In crackling flames a thousand harvests burns.
To the thick woods the wolly flocks retreat,
And mixt with bellowing herds confus'dly bleat:
Their trembling lofds the common shade partake,
And cries of infants sound in every brake:
The listening soldier fixt in sorrow stands,
Loth to obey his leader's just commands:
The leader grieves, by generous pity sway'd,
To see his just commands so well obey'd.
But now the trumpet terrible from far
In shriller clangors animates the war;
Confederate drums in fuller concert beat,
And echoing hills the loud alarm repeat:
Gallia's proud standards, to Bavaria's join'd,
Unfurl their gilded lilies in the wind;
the daring prince his blasted hopes renews,
And, while the thick embattled host he views
Stretched out in deep array, and dreadful length,
His hearts dilates, and glories in his strength.
The fatal day its mighty course began,
That the griev'd world had long desir'd in vain;
States that their new captivity bemoan'd,
Armies of martyrs that in exile groan'd,
Sighs from the depth of gloomy dungeons heard,
And prayers in bitterness of soul preferr'd,
Europe's loud cries, that Providence assail'd,
And Anna's ardent vows at length prevail'd;
The day was come when heaven design'd to show
His care and conduct of the world below.
Behold in awful march and dread array
The long extended squadrons shape thier way!
Death, in approaching terrible, imparts
An anxious horror to the bravest hearts;
Yet do their beating breasts demand the strife,
And thirst of glory quells the love of life.
No vulgar fears can British minds control:
Heat of revenge, and noble pride of soul,
O'erlook the foe, advantag'd by his post,
Lessen his nmbers,a nd contract his host;
Though fens and floods possest the middle space,
That unprovok'd they would have fear'd to pass;
Nor fens nor floods can stop Britannia's bands,
When her proud foe rang'd on their borders stands.
But O, my Muse, what numbers wilt thou find
To sing the furious troops in battle join'd!
Methinks I hear the drums tumultuous sound
The victor's shouts and dying groans confound,
The dreadful burst of cannon rend the skies,
And all the thunder of the battle rise.
'Twas then great Marlborough's mighty soul was prov'd,
That, in the shock of charging  hosts unmov'd,
Amidst confusion, horror, and despair,
Examin'd all the dreadful scenes of war:
In peaceful thought the field of death survey'd,
To fainting squadrons sent the timely aid,
Inspir'd repuls'd battalions to engage,
And taught the doubtful battle where to rage.
So when an angel by divine command
With rising tempests shaks a guilty land,
Such as of late o'er pale Britannia past,
Calm and serene he drives the furious blast;
And, pleas'd th' Almighty's orders to perform,
Rides in the whirlwind, and directs the storm.
But see the haughty houshold troops advance!
The dread of Europe, and the pride of France.
The war's whole art each private soldier knows,
And with a General's love of conquest glows;
Proudly he marches on, and void of fear
Laughs at the shaking of the British spear:
Vain insolence! with native freedom brave,
The meanest Briton scorns the highest slave;
Contempt and  fury fire their souls by turns,
Each nation's glory in each warrior burns:
Each fights, as in his arm th' important day
And all the fate of his great monarch lay:
A thousand glorious actions, that might claim
Truimphant laurels, and immortal fame,
Confus'd in crouds of glorious actions lie,
And troops of heroes undistinguish'd die.
O Dormer, how can I behold thy fate,
And not the wonders of thy youth relate!
How can I see the gay, the brave, the young,
Fall in the cloud of war, and lie usung!
In joys of conquest he resigns his breath,
And, fill'd with England's glory, smiles in death.
The rout begins, the Gallic squadrons run,
Compell'd in crouds to meet the fate they shun;
Thousands of fiery steeds with wounds transfix'd,
Floatting in gore, with their dead masters mixt,
'Midst heaps of spears and standards driven around,
Lie in the Danube's bloody whirl-pools drown'd
Troops of bold youths, born on the distant Soane,
Or sounding borders of the rapid Rhone,
Or where the Seine her flowery fields divides,
Or where the Loire through winding vineyards glides,
In heaps the rolling billows sweep away,
And into Scythian seas their bloated corps convey.
From Blenheim's towers the Gaul, with wild affright,
Beholds the various havock of the fight;
His waving banners, that so oft had stood
Planted in fields of death and streams of blood,
So wont the guarded enemy to reach,
And rise triumphant in the fatal breach,
Or pierce the broken foe's remotest lines,
The hardy veteran with tears resigns.
Unfortunate Tallard! Oh, who can name
The pangs of rage, of sorrow, and of shame,
That with mixt tumult in thy bosom swell'd,
When first thou saw'st thy bravest troops repell'd,
Thine only son pierc'd with a deadly wound,
Chok'd in his blood, and gasping on the ground,
Thyself in bondage by the victor kept!
The chief, the father, and the captive, wept.
An English Muse is touch'd with generous woe,
And in th'unhappy man forgets the foe!
Greatly distrest! they loud complaints forbear,
Blame not the turns of fate, and chance of war;
Give thy brave foes their due, nor blush to own
The fatal field by such great leaders won,
The field whence fam'd Eugenio bore away
Only the second honours of the day.
With floods of gore that from the vanquish'd fell
The marshes stagnate, and the rivers swell.
Mountains of slain lie heap'd upon the ground,
Or midst the roarings of the Danube drown'd;
Whole captive hosts the conqueror detains
In painful bondage, and inglorious chains;
Ev'n those who 'scape the fetters and the sword,
Nor seek the fortunes of a happier lord,
Their raging King dishonours, to compleat
Marlborough's great work, and finish the defeat.
From Memminghen's high domes, and Augsburg's walls,
The distant battle drives th' insulting Gauls;
Freed by the terror of the victor's name
The rescued States his great protection claim;
Whilst Ulme th' approach of her deliverer waits,
And longs to open her obsequious gates.
The hero's breast still swells with great designs,
In every thought the towering genius shines;
If to the foe his dreadful course he bends,
O'er the wide continent his march extends;
If sieges in his labouring thoughts are form'd
Camps are assaulted, and an army storm'd:
If to the sight of his active soul is bent
The fate of Europe turns on its event.
What distant land, what region, can afford
An action worthy his victorious sword?
Where will he next the flying Gaul defeat,
To make the series of his toils compleat?
Where the swoln Rhine rushing with all its force
Divides the hostile nations in its course,
While each contracts its bounds, or wider grows,
Enlarg'd or straighten'd as the river flows,
On Gallia's side a mighty bulwark stands,
That all the wide-extended plain commands;
Twice, since the war was kindled, has it try'd
The victor's rage, and twice has chang'd its side;
As oft whole armies, with the prize o'erjoy'd,
Have the long summer on its walls employ'd.
Hither our mighty chief his arms directs,
Hence future triumphs from the war expects;
And though the dog-star had its course begun,
Carries his arms still nearer to the sun:
Fixt on the glorious action, he forgets
The change of seasons, and increase of heats;
No toils are painful that can danger show,
No climes unlovely, that contain a foe.
The roving Gaul, to his own bounds restrain'd,
Learns to incamp within his native land,
But soon as the victorious host he spies,
From hill to hill, from stream to stream he flies:
Such dire impressions in his heart remain
Of Marlboroough's sword, and Hochsset's fatal plain:
In vain Britannia's mighty chief besets
Their shady coverts, and obscure retreats;
They fly the conqueror's approaching fame,
That bears the force of armies in his name.
Austria's young monarch, whose imperial sway
Sceptres and thrones are destin'd to obey,
Whose boasted ancertry so high extends,
That in the pagan gods his lineage ends,
Comes from afar, in gratitude to own
The geat supporter of his father's throne:
What tides of glory to his bosom ran,
Clasp'd in th' embrace of the godlike man!
How were his eyes with pleasing wonder fixt
To see such fire with so much sweetness mixt,
Such easy greatness, such a graceful port,
So turn'd and finish'd for the camp or court!
Achilles thus was form'd with every grace,
And Nireus shone but in the second place;
Thus the great father of almighty Rome
(Divinely flusht with an immortal bloom
That Cytherea's fragrant breath bestow'd)
In all the charms of his bright mother glow'd.
The royal youth by Marlborough's presence charm'd,
Taught by his counsels, by his actions warm'd,
On Landau with redoubled fury falls,
Discharges all his thunder on its walls,
O'er mines and caves of death provokes the fight,
And leans to conquer in the hero's fight.
The British chief, for mighty toils renown'd,
Increas'd in titles, and with conquests crown'd,
To Belgian coasts his tedious march renews,
And the long windings of the Rhine pursues,
Clearing its borders from usurping foes,
Amd blest by rescued nations as he goes.
Treves fears no more, freed from its dire alarms;
And Traerbach feels the terror of his arms:
Seated on rocks her proud foundations shake,
While Marlborough presses to the bold attack,
Plants all his batteries, bids his cannon roar,
And shows how Landau might have fall'n before.
Scar'd at his near approach, great Louis fears
Vengeance reserv'd for his declining years,
Forgets his thirst of universal sway,
And scarce can teach is subjects to obey;
His arms he finds on vain attempts employ'd,
Th' ambitious projects for his race destroy'd,
The works of ages sunk in one campaign,
And lives of millions sacrific'd in vain.
Such are th' effects of Anna's royal cares:
By her, Britannia, great in foreign wars,
Ranges through nations, wheresoe'er disjoin'd,
Without the wonted aid of sea and wind,
By her th' unfetter'd Ister's states are free,
And taste the sweets of English liberty:
But who can tell the joys of those that lie
Beneath the constant influence of her eye!
Whilst in diffusive showers her bounties fall
Like heaven's indulgence, and descend on all,
Secure the happy, succour the distrest,
Make every subject glad, and a whole people blest.
Thus would I fain Britannia's wars rehearse,
In the smooth records of a faithful verse;
That, if such numbers can o'er time prevail,
May tell posterity the wondrous tale.
When actions, unadorn'd, are faint and weak,
Cities and countries must be taught to speak;
Gods may descend in factions from the skies,
And rivers from their oozy beds arise;
Fiction may deck the truth wth spurious rays,
And round the hero cast a borrow'd blaze.
Marlborough's exploits appear divinely bright,
And proudly shine in their own native light;
Rais'd of themselves, their genuine charms they boast,
And those who paint them truest praise them most.

well I wanted to braid my hair
bathe and bedeck my
self so fine
so fully aforethought for
your pleasure
see:
I wanted to travel and read
and runaround fantastic
into war and peace:
I wanted to
surf
dive
fly
climb
conquer
and be conquered
THEN
I wanted to pickup the phone
and find you asking me
if I might possibly be alone
some night
(so I could answer cool
as the jewels I would wear
on bareskin for you
digmedaddy delectation:)
"WHEN
you comin ova?"
But I had to remember to write down
margarine on the list
and shoepolish and a can of
sliced pineapple in casea company
and a quarta skim milk cause Teresa's
gaining weight and don' nobody groove on
that much
girl
and next I hadta sort for darks and lights before
the laundry hit the water which I had
to kinda keep an eye on be-
cause if the big hose jumps the sink again that
Mrs. Thompson gointa come upstairs
and brain me with a mop don' smell too
nice even though she hang
it headfirst out the winda
and I had to check
on William like to
burn hisself to death with fever
boy so thin be
callin all day "Momma! Sing to me?"
"Ma! Am I gone die?" and me not
wake enough to sit beside him longer than
to wipeaway the sweat or change the sheets/
his shirt and feed him orange
juice before I fall out of sleep and
Sweet My Jesus ain but one can
left
and we not thru the afternoon
and now
you (temporarily) shownup with a thing
you says' a poem and you
call it
"Will The Real Miss Black America Standup?"
guilty po' mouth
about duty beauties of my
headrag
boozeup doozies about
never mind
cause love is blind
well
I can't use it
and the very next bodacious Blackman
call me queen
because my life ain shit
because (in any case) he ain been here to share it
with me
(dish for dish and do for do and
dream for dream)
I'm gone scream him out my house
be-
cause what I wanted was
to braid my hair/bathe and bedeck my
self so fully be-
cause what I wanted was
your love
not pity
be-
cause what I wanted was
your love
your love

2B /, not
? ? ?
take shit / effoff
YEAH! ! !
zzzzz
zzz nn?
? ! ? ! ? !
- - - - -

Some say that people
who like poetry
live in a rarefied world
populated with pretty words
and impractical thoughts
and naivete.
Yet, who among us
have to be told that a great deal
of life is drudgery and routine,
that there are bills to be paid,
that there are people who
do not wish us well.
People who love poems
know that a simple arrangement
of words will not re-arrange the world;
that ideals are sometimes
never achieved
and that simply putting
suffering into words
will not abolish it.
We poetry-lovers
do not need to be reminded
that the world is not always
turtle-doves and red roses,
but the sublime
and the magnificent
are also just as real
as the mundane.

Dark cypresses--
The world is uneasily happy;
It will all be forgotten.
--Theodore Storm
Mother of roots, you have not seeded
The tall ashes of loneliness
For me. Therefore,
Now I go.
If I knew the name,
Your name, all trellises of vineyards and old fire
Would quicken to shake terribly my
Earth, mother of spiraling searches, terrible
Fable of calcium, girl. I crept this afternoon
In weeds once more,
Casual, daydreaming you might not strike
Me down. Mother of window sills and journeys,
Hallower of searching hands,
The sight of my blind man makes me want to weep.
Tiller of waves or whatever, woman or man,
Mother of roots or father of diamonds,
Look: I am nothing.
I do not even have ashes to rub into my eyes.

For us there is an expression
Of significant emotions
Emotion is alive in poems
Not in the poet's dark stained past.
Emotions are not personal,
Art is also not personal;
What he writes is not Life itself
But Life's emotion translated.
Poetry is not seen or heard
But to be seen through & heard from;
It shows us a picture, tells a tale
Though that is not it in itself.
You who doubt of this being so
But have a mind to conceive thoughts
And sensibilities to feel
The disorder, the futility,
Meaninglessness and suffering,
The mysteries of existence -
You and only you will find peace:
In poems we are all reconciled.
`

i did not know sin meant chains
so full of them all over my physique
and i did not know the deceptive apple
could lead to this woeful state
only god now is boundless freedom
the paradise boundless freedom
rhe sky boundless freedom
the sea  boundless freedom
and to enjoy all these now in chain,
boundless the hurt is the heart
injurious chain on every inch of my physique
that jolts me for their wants
every minute of the day
and to know that i will pass this chain
down to every of my offsprings
binding them down to earth
till they become just dust and bones
chained, chained, chained,
this hateful long chain the devil spawned
that laid end to end
could snake its way round the world
this hateful chain that circles the body
imprisons it, hurtful as red hot iron
how stealthily it works day by day
tightening its grip
till i am wrinkled, bent, and bedridden
till only the last breath would release me
of its curse
this chain that torture me for wordly needs
oh god, how hateful you are
to bind me in these red hot chains! ! !
note:
chain refers to the blood vessels round our body
they indeed resemble a chain
as never did adam experience hunger
until this chain exacted its wants

The day my doctor died of smoking
I bought myself a fat cigar -
I realised he must be joking,
His funeral was so bizarre:
A dwarf in multi-coloured clothing
Sang louder than the parish choir
And though my heart was full of loathing
I leapt upon the funeral pyre.
I'd often longed for such a roasting
And knew it was my friend's desire,
I shouted out 'We'll all be toasting
In Hell's incandescent fire! '
Don't be discouraged by this story,
Smoking cigarettes is fine,
Inhale them on your days of glory
And drink your fill of rich, red wine! !

GOD to his untaught children sent
Law, order, knowledge, art, from high,
And ev'ry heav'nly favour lent,
The world's hard lot to qualify.
They knew not how they should behave,
For all from Heav'n stark-naked came;
But Poetry their garments gave,
And then not one had cause for shame.

Every day, the sun sets
you noticed?
in a great, glorious performance
of wraparound scenic splendour
as if it were the last day of the world
(we'd sue)
and all around the world
poets who've been chewing on their pencils all day
or gazing steamy-eyed at an empty screen
without as we poets say, the Muse whispering
an ode we're owed
as poets
wonder if it could be one last chance
to write the ultimate sunset poem
to get something down today
and justify our existence beyond existing
noting that at sunset
the red flowers in the garden glow so intensely
that you can feel it on your eyeballs
and the sunlight just when the sun disappears
lights up the whole landscape like a floodlight
on the stage set of our lives
that sort of stuff
then next morning the sun
rises on our ultimate sunset poem
and later sets

THOU liest dead, and there will be no memory left behind
Of thee or thine in all the earth, for never didst thou bind
The roses of Pierian streams upon thy brow; thy doom
Is now to flit with unknown ghosts in cold and nameless gloom.

Pining for a much better quality of life,
Opened to great suffering and pain.
Violence and hate, society's distain.
Every step seems a step in the wrong direction.
Realizing each day is a losing battle.
Trampled by the powerful, frowned upon by middleclass.
Yet always wondering, how long will it last.
Written:  Jan.15,2008

Arrows of poverty darting from throes
Thorns of destitution germinating from thrones
Flood of orphans sprouting on ghettos of misery
Torrents of waifs are pouring out from poverty-stricken outskirts of melancholy
Usurped future awaits them to heap upon their plights reprieved
Kingdom of agony is their permanent cottages of lights bereaved
Freezing winters and searing summers passing by
Infants of heedless justice praying with weep and cry
Begging god for walking on meadows of unceasing happiness
Yearning for unfading dreams of incessant caress
They are mere innocent victims of hostilities
Deprived of even vital facilities
Malnutrition wreaking withdrawl of stomachs on waists of threadbare bait
Refrigerators are deserts of poignant barren fate
Eradication of poverty is ridiculous mottoes of powers
We should take a determined action to raze this FATAL pestilence of populace.

Was I so poor
in those damned days
that I went in the dark
in torn shoes
and furtiveness
to steal fat ears
of cattle corn
from the good cows
and pound them
like hard maize
on my worn Aztec
stone? I was.

The stork flew over a town one day,
And back of each wing an infant lay;
One to a rich man’s home he brought,
And one he left at a labourer’s cot.
The rich man said, ‘My son shall be
A lordly ruler o’er land and sea.’
The labourer sighed, ‘’Tis the good God’s will
That I have another mouth to fill.’
The rich man’s son grew strong and fair,
And proud with the pride of a millionaire.
His motto in life was, ‘Live while you may, ’
And he crowded years in a single day.
He bought position and name and place,
And he bought him a wife with a handsome face.
He journeyed over the whole wide world,
But discontent his heart lay curled
Like a serpent hidden in leaves and moss,
And life seemed hollow and gold was dross.
He scoffed at woman, and doubted God,
And died like a beast and went back to the sod.
The son of the labourer tilled the soil,
And thanked God daily for health and toil.
He wedded for love in his youthful prime,
And two lives chorded in tune and time.
His wants were simple, and simple his creed,
To trust God fully: it served his need,
And lightened his labour, and helped him to die
With a smile on his lips and a hope in his eye.
When all is over and all is done,
Now which of these men was the richer one?

Father, poverty is a gift
Ask any bird taking a rain bath.
Son, don't make's me laugh
There's nothing but rain
Poverty isn't a gift
There's nothing but pain.
So son fastens your reigns
Ride for them riches today
Don't live by wage's daily
Paid only once monthly
Father poverty is a gift.
Son nothing is ever enough,
Just ask your mum.

Eradication of poverty all over the world
A must and justice to the people
Poverty is not at all a curse or to blame
It is surely the system's failure in sharing.
Poverty the most dreaded thing to experience
To a thinking mind to live without food
Or to the barest minimum of necessities
where it is denied is a cruel thing to experience
Blame the world of poverty and try for corrections
Share the resources to such an equality
At least for two square meals a day
And minimum necessities that humans want
Respect the human being and its dignity all over
Surely poverty is the most objectionable thing
The confidence of life losing in its bottom lines
The unhelpful society accuses the poverty as fate.
The world is so improved in living conditions
But the system  in sharing is rotten and old
Change those inequalities in perfect peace
Allowing the human life more possibilities and change.
Life is short and human life is precious
Only the world order can save the humans
The world is fully capable to look after
If there is a perfect world with change of mind
Contentment, kindness, and humanity be preserved.

Poverty is the curse of life
but some time it is gift for life
if you have no car
you cover your distance
on foot or by public means
you have no mobile phone
you are saved
from unnecessary calls
and will save time
but now-a-days
every one has got
Due to lack of money
you can not take rich food
you are saved from unforeseen disease
like sugar, high blood pressure etc.
if you have enough money
you will always be thinking
for better investment
you can hardly spare your time
to attend church, temple, mosque etc
you will be deprived
from attachment of God
if you have money
more than your requirement
donate humbly and generously
for charity
Money is the means
not the matter
do not run behind money
let the money run behind you.
(Do not run behind money - i mean to say not to earn money by evil means)

you look at the poverty of other people
romancing it like a metaphor in your poetry
the color of a man's unwashed shirt with mud
and blood, dried sweat,
the sound of a hungry baby like the sound
of thunder coming from the breasts of mountains
the ignorant woman like a beautiful native naked
and bathing in the river and rising like a famous nude painting
their poverty to the rhythm of some blues
the colors in brown, and black and violet and scarlet
the trembling hands and biting lips and blank stares
the blackest background ever
to a future as  bleak as ember
to a poverty hopeless as ever.

(he shouts about politics, while we have here about poetry)
....he read that
mine poetry about this poverty
the stupidity started scolding me
declared instantly me-moi as its enemy
its words, so absurd
a lunatic so terrific
not its area nor its section
I oft write in Dutch and this is mine declaration
I do now one step lower
from "it" I step a bit lower down to "his"
his profession does not read poetry
but he thought he could read
poetry poesy and poems
true very pity
not his art nor his profession
he meddles in everything
mine poetic wings, not his thing
Oft to my Queendom he comes
he thinks he could reign me
that was his greatest mistake
he thought he could read
I too thought that he could read
but....I was mistaken
mine loved friend said he loves to read
I too thought that he loves to read
it seemed so, it looked so
but....I was mistaken
after having walked amongst this poverty
I must conclude in tears and tragedy
this is the worst and most tragic comedy
I ever knew after my literal study
after he read my poetry
in the darkest café while drinking wild wine
he copied the full title of mine poetry
"Saddest about the poverty nowadays"
and instantly mailed me,
that I started talking about politics
I thought he could read poetry
but....I was mistaken
my loved one never knew
the alienating appearance of this blind male
I wrote about true poetry and its poverty
he associated with politics
once again here I repeat my last poem's title
"Saddest about the poverty nowadays"
his unwanted eyes are peeping constantly
copying my poem, the constant liar
he read mine poetry
I wrote about the poverty in poetry
instantly he started shouting about politics
just like this fake person
he has that poverty I have in mind
about vocabulary, grammar, and all that kind
I thought he could read poetry
I was mistaken
he was peeping constantly
at mine poetry
I wrote about words, nouns
the present and the past
and all the tenses
it pained all my senses
when he accused me of politics
of yelling at innocent persons
shouting at innocent poets
not mine strife in this forsaken life
I am suffering from pain
restrained
I thought he was clever
I am now mistaken forever
Oft I asked my lover
do you wish to know who he is?
he is all there darkest is, except God's Bliss
a constant stalker, an insane chatter
an aliphatic androgyne appearance
this is the biggest difference….
Photography by Sylvia Frances Chan: "Winter-Mourning Landscape"
© Sylvia Frances Chan
Copyright Protected
AD.Wednesday the 17th of January 2018.
@ 8.43 hrs.A.M. West-European Time

When the rain falls from the sky above,
It is God showering you with tears of love.
When the sun shines on a  bright sunny day.
God’s angels are coming your way.
When the wind blows, and the trees sway.
God speaks and has much to say.
When the snowflakes fall and glisten.
God whispers, we must listen.
When the earth trembles and opens to swallow.
God tells us, there may be no tomorrow.
When the sea lifts and the waters tower.
God warns all of his great power.
When the sounds of thunder are heard.
God insists we follow his word.
When the funnel winds shatter our existence
God gives us tremendous resistence.
When we witness the forces of nature.
There is no doubt of it’s creator.
God reigns in heaven and rules the earth.
We shall remain in awe, of his worth.
Written: February  19,2006

I never turned anyone into a pig.
Some people are pigs; I make them
Look like pigs.
I'm sick of your world
That lets the outside disguise the inside. Your men weren't bad men;
Undisciplined life
Did that to them. As pigs,
Under the care of
Me and my ladies, they
Sweetened right up.
Then I reversed the spell, showing you my goodness
As well as my power. I saw
We could be happy here,
As men and women are
When their needs are simple. In the same breath,
I foresaw your departure,
Your men with my help braving
The crying and pounding sea. You think
A few tears upset me? My friend,
Every sorceress is
A pragmatist at heart; nobody sees essence who can't
Face limitation. If I wanted only to hold you
I could hold you prisoner.

Kisses upon kisses
Teases upon teases
Certain madness fills the air
It is termed as love I fear
Kisses upon kisses
Teases upon teases
Touches upon touches
My hearts broken pieces
Are once again at peace
Kisses upon kisses
Teases upon teases
Touches upon touches
Flattery upon Flattery
Love always sparkles without batteries
Lips upon lips
First a taste of your tongues tip
Admiration induces exploration
While love ignites imagination
I can feel your kissing power
And the sensational effect it showers
I can feel your kissing power
As you handle me like a delicate flower
Week legs
Pleasure begs
I can feel your kissing power
While you kiss me by the hour
Don't stop!
Be my hero not my flop!

Power is love and strength
Showered on others at any length
Power is a woman
Standing delicately like a flower
Power is intelligence
Without pretence that is so intense
Power is knowledge
We all acknowledge
As politicians take the oath and pledge
Along comes the usual greed
With the desire to feed
On weaknesses with speed
So careful, take heed!
Before you dry up and bleed
Power knows no friends
Powers shows and sends
A message of uneven ends
Power is spoken words
When battles and wars are won
Without the need of the gun
Power is the human touch
That soothes the heart so much
While we observe, stand and watch
But on the whole
Power is control
Its one and only ultimate goal!

The mighty sound of forests murmuring
In answer to the dread command;
The stars that shudder when their king
extends his hand,
His awful hand to bless, to curse; or moves
Toward the dimmest den
In the thick leaves, not known of loves
Or nymphs or men;
(Only the sylph's frail gossamer may wave
Their quiet frondage yet,
Only her dewy tears may lave
The violet;)
The mighty answer of the shaken sky
To his supreme behest; the call
Of Ibex that behold on high
Night's funeral,
And see the pale moon quiver and depart
Far beyond space, the sun ascend
And draw earth's globe unto his heart
To make an end;
The shriek of startled birds; the sobs that tear
With sudden terror the sharp sea
That slept, and wove its golden hair
Most mournfully;
The rending of the earth at his command
Who wields the wrath of heaven, and is dumb;
Hell starts up - and before his hand
Is overcome.
I heard these voices, and beheld afar
These dread works wrought at his behest:
And on his forehead, lo! a star,
And on his breast.
And on his feet I knew the sandals were
More beautiful than flame, and white,
And on the glory of his hair
The crown of night.
And I beheld his robe, and on its hem
Were writ unlawful words to say,
Broidered like lilies, with a gem
More clear than day.
And round him shone so wonderful a light
As when on Galilee
Jesus once walked, and clove the night,
And calmed the sea.
I scarce could see his features for the fire
That dwelt about his brow,
Yet, for the whiteness of my own desire,
I see him now;
Because my footsteps follow his, and tread
The awful bounds of heaven, and make
The very graves yield up their dead,
And high thrones shake;
Because my eyes still steadily behold
And dazzle not, nor shun the night,
The foam - born lamp of beaten gold
And secret might;
Because my forehead bears the sacred Name,
And my lips bear the brand
Of Him whose heaven is one flame,
Whose holy hand
Gathers this earth, who built the vaults of space,
Moulded the stars, and fixed the iron sea,
Because His love lights through my face
And all of me.
Because my hand may fasten on the sword
Of my heart falter not, and smite
Those lampless limits most abhorred
Of iron night,
And pass beyond their horror to attack
Fresh foemen, light and truth to bring
Through their untrodden fields of black,
A victor king.
I know all must be well, all must be free;
I know God as I know a friend;
I conquer, and most silently
Await the end.

O, from what power hast thou this powerful might
With insufficiency my heart to sway?
To make me give the lie to my true sight,
And swear that brightness doth not grace the day?
Whence hast thou this becoming of things ill,
That in the very refuse of thy deeds
There is such strength and warrantise of skill
That, in my mind, thy worst all best exceeds?
Who taught thee how to make me love thee more,
The more I hear and see just cause of hate?
O, though I love what others do abhor,
With others thou shouldst not abhor my state.
If thy unworthiness raised love in me,
More worthy I to be beloved of thee.

The lust for power is an addiction the Government their own praises do sing
And rubbish their main opposition as to Government they try to cling
The voters bombarded with propaganda right up until election day
The true fact of all politicians is they seldom do mean what they say
The winners take all of the glory and the winners they do celebrate
The prize it is great and worth lying for that's how they feel those who wish to rule the State
The lust for power is an addiction and not a harmless addiction 'twould seem
Without such power some people feel worthless and suffer of low self esteem
Some people become so power hungry that power to their egos is fuel
They feel it is their right to Govern that they have been born to rule
The Opposition as bad as the Government they too want power in the worst way
Any respect to their political opponents they have no desire for to pay
It is all about power and their egos power to them is the best thing of all
Their pride to them is all that matter though pride it can come before a fall.

Inside a tree a squirrel sat,
he was well-nourished, even fat.
He spotted then the owl who, wise,
was sought out by the forest's guys
if information was the need.
And of all critters owls, indeed
do have a comprehensive brain
(it is the reason they are vain) .
The squirrel asked about the snow, '
the weight of flakes he aimed to know.
'Each snowflake' said the owl 'weighs naught,
that's what experience has taught.'
The squirrel, who would sit for hours
to sharpen observation powers:
'Howcould this be my learned friend,
snow must weigh something, in the end?
Last winter, as I watched it snow,
the ground came closer from below
and as I sat here in the tree
I was positioned thus to see
how more and more the snow would rise
to white and pretty looking highs.
Each branch received a goodly portion
and some would bend into distortion.
The weight of sixteen million flakes
is, from my view, just what it takes
to snap my perch like some thin twig,
so tell me wise owl, with a wig
what made it break if snow weighs nil!
Kindly explain this if you will.'
'yes, it can be' the owl proclaimed,
her words were with intention aimed
at all the critters.'Now and then
and once a year, and then again,
a bit of nothing will suffice
to crush a solid block of ice,
or fell a tree of strapping strength
and cut in half the height and length
of things that live with us each day.
It is a price they have to pay.'
'A bit of nothing thus can cause
the overturning of great laws,
of physics, chemistry and maths,
of Bunsen burners, acid baths.
There is no use to whine and fret,
it's what you get. It's what you get.'

'Tis a strange mystery, the power of words!
Life is in them, and death. A word can send
The crimson colour hurrying to the cheek.
Hurrying with many meanings; or can turn
The current cold and deadly to the heart.
Anger and fear are in them; grief and joy
Are on their sound; yet slight, impalpable:--
A word is but a breath of passing air.

I was in my office one day
And an old black truck driver came my way
As we were talking a ganster walked in
Cussing all the white men
The old black man looked at him
He said boy where have you been
I was born in racial segragation
Whipped day in and day out
You do not know what your talking about
I am tired of you so called gansters
Crying about racism
You were never put in a cage like a hamster
You get scholarships
Business loans
Affirmitive action
Cars and cell phones
I had to work my tail off to earn the things I have
You just cry racism and they give in to your lies while you laugh
I forgave the white people along time ago
They were fools that needed to know
What wrong was done
Now they try making amends
And we in turn reversed the racism
Become a real man
Watch over your family
Work hard and honestly
Earn your keep
God will make you reap
Forgive the past
Help make the future last
Love your brothers and sisters
Respect your elders
End the hatred you did not earn
The hatred that I once scorned
Because hatred will eat you inside
And stupidity like racism will never die.
Because your actions keep racism alive

How long will you go
Doing
Racism, anti-racism,
Now it is time to
Make the ghost down
Your head,
The ghost of racism, anti-racism
Which made you dance
So long.

lessons in racism
should be taken to heart
never crime repeated

Prejudice
I don't like him or her or them
because they are
white, black, Asian, European, Middle Eastern,
Jewish, Christian, Muslim, Atheist,
those narrow-minded vegetarians,
and those cruel murderers who eat meat.
Look at those geeks, and nerds, and goths.
Why would anyone want to be emo or scene?
What kind of loser likes classical music and books?
Look at those disgraces to humanity
who have tattoos and piercings.
Look at how fat she is, and how skinny he is!
You jocks and preppy girls, you think you are so good.
Obviously anyone who watches TV or drinks beer is a bum,
and don't you hate those teens always texting on their phones?
People are prejudiced
against everyone and everything,
how you look, and what you do,
whether you are young or old,
male or female, what you believe and what you don't.
And let us not forget those people
who are prejudiced against people
who are prejudiced.
Racism
The blacks
the whites
the Asians
the Indians
the Middle Easterns
the Italians
the Jews
the Mexicans
the Russians
the Chinese
the Japanese
the English
the French
the humans.
No matter where you are from
there are people who will hate you
because of your race and nationality.
You cannot control
where you are born
nor your heritage
any more
than you can control
being a human.
Yet, that does not matter
to the racists.
Why would you judge someone
on such a silly thing?
Does it really make a difference
whether you were born here or there?
Does the color of your skin
affect your mind, heart, or soul?
Do the faults of our ancestors
become our faults?
Perhaps,
perhaps race does matter.
Perhaps someone who is white
is intrinsically different
than someone who is black.
Perhaps all Asians
are different
than Europeans.
It is true,
that certain characteristics
are more common in some races than others -
stereotypes do not form without reason.
Yet even so,
even if a stereotype does apply to a race,
does that make the race good or bad?
And even if a stereotype does apply to a race,
can that stereotype be applied
to every member of the race?
Is not every single person in the world
different and unique?
Can there never be exceptions to rules?
Must you really hate people
because of where they are from
and who their parents are?

It would seem racism abounds
everywhere. In this century
and from the earliest times.
Suspicious of others who do
not belong. Different culture,
customs or language. Outsiders
like the Barbarians were despised.
Not only for their appearance
and culture but they didn't
speak Greek.
Today, the Can't Breathe movement
must be applauded. There is no
room for racists in civilised
societies. The world is now a
smaller place where infringement
of human rights is instantly
recognised.

Racist people,
Are the saddest these days.
Racist people,
And their ways...
Are fading away.
Hatred kills!
Chills.
And often excused,
As heroism.
Hatred kills!
And for thrills,
Often is defended...
As a pride.
No matter if it hangs...
Or drags alongside,
Insecurites denied.
Hiding the fact...
Their is jealousy behind,
Evil and often...
Masquerading eyes.
Black, white...
Brown or yellow folks,
Provoking attacks.
On others.
Or themselves!
To stab with a vengeance,
Behind a back.
To distort facts!
Racism kills.
And there is no sense in it.
Racism kills.
And the sense that's meant.
Racism kills.
Leaving minds incensed.
Exposing ills...
And evil wills.
Racism kills.
And there is no sense in it.
Racism kills.
And the sense that's meant.
Racism kills.
Leaving minds incensed.
Exposing ills...
And evil wills.
And evil wills to kill will end.

Racism
Of my eyes two stream
I had read
Read somewhere
Where was that?
Do not know.
Hollywood’s classic’s nice ending made me laugh
But I felt pain of Dave and Philip, who is me?
What is race?
What the hell when with faith?
I hate it but exist.
Unlucky
I could be for having been around.
Seeing rich, poor in pain and others,
Ate their food, in kitchen I slept with the rats, guinea pigs.
I have walked in their shoes.
I cried with the film.
Out of eyes two streams.
What is race?
What the hell when it comes with the faith?
Jews-Arabs or Persians and blacks, first nations…all hated.
I’m tired of myself,
Of being,
Of walking on two feet,
Walking as a mankind,
I’m ashamed, I’m ashamed.
Read the book,
Watch the film:
Gentleman’s Agreement,
Then cry as I did.
Feel ashamed of being human.

racism perpetrated in the name
of past injustices is still racism
racism justified now in the name
of past evils crimes is still racism
a racist is still a racist regardless
of any all justifications quoted
all racism is a violation
of the right to equality
belonging to all humanity
all racism is a cruel violation
of the sacred right to equality
belonging to all our humanity
Copyright © Terence George Craddock

The racism erases
the beautiful memories
and it believes
in the perfect
world
The racism is
a too big
and horrible problem
It is a
wrong and impure
mistake
The racism is
a bad and
public thought
The racism is
played by the
poors of reasons
The racism doesn't
live in the
jungle but it
lives in the
modern society
I'm against the
racism
The racists are
cursed because they
are false
For me the
racism resides in
the hate
For the innocents
the racism is
lost war
For me the
racism doesn't exist
in a citizen
world
For me the
racism is a
terrible suffering
It can't stand
the harmony and
the heart of
a bay
It survives in
the evident darkness
The racism hates
the comfortable and
hospitable villa
The racism serves
the big Evil
It doesn't use
the magic
It wants to
destroy the balance
between the people
For the angels
the racism is
a shame and
a bright lie

The tree tops are Dead
and so are the Roots
It's the rain they Dread
also the Shoots
The rain is like Acid
it eats it all Away
should be more placid
would help in a big Way
But one Day the Trees will be Gone
It seams all the people do is Yawn
But when it is Black, Dark, and no Bark
We'll wish we were sitting in a Green Park

Let the rain kiss you
Let the rain beat upon your head with silver liquid drops
Let the rain sing you a lullaby
The rain makes still pools on the sidewalk
The rain makes running pools in the gutter
The rain plays a little sleep song on our roof at night
And I love the rain.

First winter rain--
even the monkey
seems to want a raincoat.
Translated by Robert Hass

Oh, gray and tender is the rain,
That drips, drips on the pane!
A hundred things come in the door,
The scent of herbs, the thought of yore.
I see the pool out in the grass,
A bit of broken glass;
The red flags running wet and straight,
Down to the little flapping gate.
Lombardy poplars tall and three,
Across the road I see;
There is no loveliness so plain
As a tall poplar in the rain.
But oh, the hundred things and more,
That come in at the door! --
The smack of mint, old joy, old pain,
Caught in the gray and tender rain.

the vultures at the zoo
(all three of them)
sit very quietly in their
caged tree
and below
on the ground
are chunks of rotten meat.
the vultures are over-full.
our taxes have fed them
well.
we move on to the next
cage.
a man is in there
sitting on the ground
eating
his own shit.
i recognize him as
our former mailman.
his favorite expression
had been:
"have a beautiful day."
that day i did.

POEM IS HIDDEN. CANNOT BE READ WITHOUT THE PERMISSION OF THE AUTHOR

At first I couldn't get enough,
Now I just can't make it stop.
No rain in the desert that was rough,
Around here there's no dry spot.
It's been raining everyday,
Since I came back to my home.
The sunshine just can't seem to stay,
Hurricanes and storms, won't leave us alone.
I like the rain like everyone,
But it's been over done a bit.
We'll need a boat before we're done,
I'm about to throw a fit.
There's a fish just swimming by,
Waving his soggy fin at me.
All I could muster was a 'hi',
From my perch up in the tree.
727/10 Alton Texas

The first rain reminds me
Of the rising summer dust.
The rain doesn't remember the rain of yesteryear.
A year is a trained beast with no memories.
Soon you will again wear your harnesses,
Beautiful and embroidered, to hold
Sheer stockings: you
Mare and harnesser in one body.
The white panic of soft flesh
In the panic of a sudden vision
Of ancient saints.
Translated from the Hebrew by Barbara and Benjamin Harshav

I hear leaves drinking rain;
I hear rich leaves on top
Giving the poor beneath
Drop after drop;
'Tis a sweet noise to hear
These green leaves drinking near.
And when the Sun comes out,
After this Rain shall stop,
A wondrous Light will fill
Each dark, round drop;
I hope the Sun shines bright;
'Twill be a lovely sight.

You come to me quiet as rain not yet fallen
Afraid of how you might fail yourself your
dress seven summers old is kept open
in memory of sex, smells warm, of boys,
and of the once long grass.
But we are colder now; we have not
Love’s first magic here. You come to me
Quiet as bulbs not yet broken
Out into sunlight.
The fear I see in your now lining face
Changes to puzzlement when my hands reach
For you as branches reach. Your dress
Does not fall easily, nor does your body
Sing of it won accord. What love added to
A common shape no longer seems a miracle.
You come to me with your age wrapped in excuses
And afraid of its silence.
Into the paradise our younger lives made of this bed and room
Has leaked the world and all its questioning
and now those shapes terrify us most
that remind us of our own. Easier now
to check longings and sentiment,
to pretend not to care overmuch,
you look out across the years, and you come to me
quiet as the last of our senses closing.

She's not the end of my rainbow
she's its beginning-
I am blinded by her colors-
her red, crimson, blood-red lips
which promise fire and burn
into me with the furious fury of red river flows
she gives in her passion eddies.
Her cheeks glow with that same tint
and floating high her aureola gleams
above violet eyes which stream
out and into deep my soul-
where our Rainbow Yellow lives.
Joy is surely the color yellow;
we are joined-participled,
framed by her tresses of similar hue.
Her orange is mellow light
and plunges down her dappled nape
to her nipples making them
orange-erect and wanting.
Her body blood at center now
is violet and indigo;
blood flow now beneath her skin
glows with these;
two hues blending to announce
the purple promises she makes
with her body-scape
arched high
rainbow-shaped
making our colors blend;
and now the semi-circle is reversed
to allow me into her deeper hues.
Outside the trees display green;
inside our rainbows sing
announcing
yet another new beginning.
I catch me then a rainbow each day,
marvel at it
lying in my bed
translucent.

A rainbow does not stay too long,
for everyone to see. So I hurry to
the end of it, to what awaits for me.
~
At the end of my rainbow, I believed
the story true. I'd find all the treasure
I could ever long for. Not gold, nor
jewels, but you!
~
I needed not, a pot of gold. It can't keep me
warm, when nights grow cold. I need
your love '' the only thing ''. 'Tis a treasure
that gold could never bring.
~
So hurry chase '' your  rainbow ''! Don't wait
til it' too late on on your next rainy day. The
happiness that you may seek, could quickly
fade away.
~
Now each time I see a rainbow arched across
the velvet skies. I think of you and our love so
true, as these colours pass mine eye's.
***************************************** ***********
~TJW~

Rainbow oh rainbow
You be in my dreams somehow
Golden spectrum brow

Oh, if that rainbow up there,
Spanning the sky past the hill,
Slenderly, tenderly fair
Shining with colours that thrill,
Oh, if that rainbow up there,
Just for a moment could reach
Through the wet slope of the air
Here where I stand on the beach!
Here where the waves wash the strand,
Swing itself lovingly low,
Let me catch fast with one hand,
Climb its frail rigging and go.
Climb its frail rigging and go?
Where is its haven of rest?
Out in the gleam and the glow
Of the blood-red waves of the West?
Or where the isles of the dawn
Lie on an amethyst sea,
Does it drift, pale and forlorn,
Ghost of the glory I see?
Is there, ah, is there a land
Such as the Icelanders say,
Or past the West's ruddy strand
Or on the edge of the day,
Some undiscovered clime
Seen through a cloud's sudden rift,
Where all the rainbows of Time
Slowly and silently drift?
Some happy port of a sea
Never a world's sail has made,
Where till the earth shadows flee
Never a rainbow may fade.
Oh, if that rainbow up there,
Just for a moment would reach,
Through the wet slope of the air
Here where I stand on the beach.
Here where the waves wash the strand
Swing itself lovingly low,
Let me catch fast with one hand,
Climb its frail rigging and go!

Morning breaks.
Shafts of rainbow's light
flood the stained windows
of last week's existence.
The radiance plays
iridescent games
in the shadows of my slumber,
forcing recognition
of a new beginning.
I peel back the shutters,
exposing the dim recesses
to the new day,
and wonder what may lie in store
at the end of that rainbow.

Colorful wedding band
From the proud sky
To the blushing earth

SPECKLES OF RAINBOW
time yet flies by the shadow
sun still strong by its swanky walks
swampy stream yet not desiccated by the fire
as i remember the last night by the passion
the dream still burns me in its cruised arms
and i am just half backed bone by the rays
scorching sun prides beneath the lamp post
night yet to come by the day when retires
shadow still burns bristling by the ashes
meadow when yells to dark clouds by the green
breeze yet not blown by feathers swing
cuckoo still in its nest by the hunger
yet your whispers tells me the woes by the hope
over the vale of tunes haunting the colored glow
would you not come back again by the purple blue
rain still in its wait by speckles of rainbow when desired

Over the rainbow bluebirds scatter,
Nothing's there to really matter.
A shaft of light born of love,
From the womb of life
Pierces the axis of your being
Your home.
No need to climb that mountain,
No need for promised lands,
No need to climb that fence,
The shaft of light has told you,
You're sitting on a golden seat,
See,
Your Eden's.
Lying all around your feet.

Triumphal arch, that fill'st the sky
When storms prepare to part,
I ask not proud Philosophy
To teach me what thou art; -
Still seem; as to my childhood's sight,
A midway station given
For happy spirits to alight
Betwixt the earth and heaven.
Can all that Optics teach unfold
Thy form to please me so,
As when I dreamt of gems and gold
Hid in thy radiant bow?
When Science from Creation's face
Enchantment's veil withdraws,
What lovely visions yield their place
To cold material laws!
And yet, fair bow, no fabling dreams,
But words of the Most High,
Have told why first thy robe of beams
Was woven in the sky.
When o'er the green, undeluged earth
Heaven's covenant thou didst shine,
How came the world's gray fathers forth
To watch thy sacred sign!
And when its yellow luster smiled
O'er mountains yet untrod,
Each mother held aloft her child
To bless the bow of God.
Methinks, thy jubilee to keep,
The first-made anthem rang
On earth, delivered from the deep,
And the first poet sang.
Nor ever shall the Muse's eye
Unraptured greet thy beam;
Theme of primeval prophecy,
Be still the prophet's theme!
The earth to thee her incense yields,
The lark thy welcome sings,
When, glittering in the freshened fields,
The snowy mushroom springs.
How glorious is thy girdle, cast
O'er mountain, tower, and town,
Or mirrored in the ocean vast,
A thousand fathoms down!
As fresh in yon horizon dark,
As young thy beauties seem,
As when the eagle from the ark
First sported in thy beam:
For, faithful to its sacred page,
Heaven still rebuilds thy span;
Nor lets the type grow pale with age,
That first spoke peace to man.

Your lips are like a southern lily red,
Wet with the soft rain-kisses of the night,
In which the brown bee buries deep its head,
When still the dawn's a silver sea of light.
Your lips betray the secret of your soul,
The dark delicious essence that is you,
A mystery of life, the flaming goal
I seek through mazy pathways strange and new.
Your lips are the red symbol of a dream,
What visions of warm lilies they impart,
That line the green bank of a fair blue stream,
With butterflies and bees close to each heart!
Brown bees that murmur sounds of music rare,
That softly fall upon the langourous breeze,
Wafting them gently on the quiet air
Among untended avenues of trees.
O were I hovering, a bee, to probe
Deep down within your scented heart, fair flower,
Enfolded by your soft vermilion robe,
Amorous of sweets, for but one perfect hour!

The Yangtze flows east
Washing away
A thousand ages of great men
West of the ramparts --
People say --
Are the fabled Red Cliffs of young Chou of the Three Kingdoms
Rebellious rocks pierce the sky
Frightening waves rip the bank
The backwash churns vast snowy swells --
River and mountains like a painting
how many heroes passed them, once ...
Think back to those years, Chou Yu --
Just married to the younger Chiao --
Brave, brilliant
With plumed fan, silk kerchief
Laughed and talked
While masts and oars vanished to flying ash and smoke!
I roam through ancient realms
Absurdly moved
Turn gray too soon --
A man's life passes like a dream --
Pour out a cup then, to the river, and the moon
Translation 2
The endless river eastward flows;
With its huge waves are gone all those
Gallant heroes of bygone years.
West of the ancient fortress years
Red Cliff where General Zhou Yu won his early fame
When the Three Kingdoms were in flame.
Jugged rocks tower in the air
And swashing waves beat on the air
Rolling up a thousand heaps of snow.
To match the hills and the river so fair,
How many heroes brave of yore
Made a great show!
Translation 3
The great river surges east,
Its waves have scoured away
Since time began all traces of heroic men.
The western side of the old fort
Was once, so people say,
Known as the Red Cliff of Zhou of the Three Kingdoms.
With piled-up rocks to stab the sky
And waves to shake them thunderously
Churning the frothy mass to mounds of snow,
It's like a masterpiece in paint.
Those ages hide how many a hero!
Think back to those old days;
that first year when Zhou Yu had just  married  the Young Qiao.
Then, what a hero he became!
With waving fan and silken cap
He talked and laughed at ease
While masts and oars were blotted out in smoke and flame!
My wits that stray to realms of old
Deserve the scorn of all who feel;
Years pass, and hair grows white so soon.
Though a man's life is like a dream,
One toast continues still -- the River and the Moon!

in the new washroom
teaching grandchild to brush teeth
old toothless granny
mom red with fury
the mirror and the child's face
red with her lipstick

I have a little red car,
that fits five quite comfortably,
but members of my family
when shopping think I drive a lorry.
The thing is that they think
it will take them as well,
would you believe.
I do not know where they got the notion
that if you push the back seat down
you can carry triple the amount.
In a minute if they keep going
I will be driving through the sunroof
as there will not be any room
for me in my little red car.
(7 July 2007)

i like
red
it dances
for me
rolling
down my fingers
so pretty
red
the way
she dances
so pretty
the red
makes it
better
the floor
shiny
with red
in patterns
i can see them
like butterflies
or faces
dancing
across the patterns
making
new patterns
she makes them
singing
red
so happy
with the singing
and dancing
the red
dances with her
like the rain
on my window
red
so much red
my whole world
red
my hands
red
her pretty dress
red
the floor and walls
red
redredred
so happy
and red
she sang
from the red
on her throat
like a flute
or a fountain
so red
red red red
dancing spasms
to music
on the floor
and in my head
red
whole world red
redredred

Red Rose Red Lips
Red color of red rose match with your soft lips
I want to caress, kiss all the petals with passion
With sophisticated gestures your eyes give tips
All but seen in real wonderful romantic fashion
Let me be the part of beauty let me see you all
You are my heart solace you are my sweetheart
Her hidden beauty crops up in actions to install
Like a gorgeous lady you are amazing and smart
Let me be the part of your emotional dark nights
Let me bloom like a flower under your all tresses
I will perform duties of love with beauty as rights
Let us make strong in a chain all the love bases
Col Muhammad Khalid Khan
Copyright 2017 Golden Glow

The meaning of just one red rose
It's plain for all to see
It is just this, my love for you
And what it means to me
So take this rose and with it's love
Be mine, If near or far
Remember too my love for you
And stay the way you are
I miss you and the days grow long
When you are out of touch
So take this rose and always know
I love you dear, so much
Give a thought to me each day
Love as not passed you by
Feed your rose with teardrops
If to love me makes you cry
There will be no love stronger
A love known by so few
From the one, who gives you this red rose
And all it means to you
Good luck, good health, God bless dear
May I see you every day
Pray my love be always with you
Till the last rose, fades away.

You offer me a red rose
The little prince loved her
I hold her carefully
Because of the thorns
I breathe your rose
And am transported

This red balloon with broken string is floating into the sky,
I watch it swaying and jerking, as it enters the atmosphere,
Lost sadly to this earth of ours, it now says a last goodbye,
Sailing towards the fleecy clouds, it invites the wind to steer.
Had a small hand let go the string, so escape was rather fast,
Twirling away, those powerful currents assuring a final climb.
Slowly receding into the blue, disappearing back to the past,
Lost in that extensive vast place, a gap in space and time.
Unencumbered now, it unhurriedly continues to journey on,
Perhaps it was a child's treasure, a simple pleasing thing,
Thinking about it, to whom I wonder, did it once belong,
This red balloon, that's floating with a trailing broken string.
©   Ernestine Northover

Body, remember not only how much you were loved
not only the beds you lay on.
but also those desires glowing openly
in eyes that looked at you,
trembling for you in voices-
only some chance obstacle frustrated them.
Now that it's all finally in the past,
it seems almost as if you gave yourself
to those desires too-how they glowed,
remember, in eyes that looked at you,
remember, body, how they trembled for you in those voices.

Do you remember when we would laugh because we thought alike?
It’s over.
Do you remember when we would dream of our future, laughing
in the face of all likelihood?
It’s over.
Do you remember when you hurt, and i could do nothing for it, but love you- which i did, without holding back for anything?
It’s over.
Do you remember falling in love?
It’s over.
Do you remember being friends, but wanting more?
It’s over.
Why is it over?
Don’t you remember the feeling?
Don’t you want what you said you wanted, then?
Do you remember what you said you wanted?
Why is it over?
I never ended it,
And I never would.
Why did you?
Don’t you remember?

I Remember, I Remember
I remember, I remember
The house where I was born,
The little window where the sun
Came peeping in at morn;
He never came a wink too soon
Nor brought too long a day;
But now, I often wish the night
Had borne my breath away.
I remember, I remember
The roses red and white,
The violets and the lily cups--
Those flowers made of light!
The lilacs where the robin built,
And where my brother set
The laburnum on his birthday,--
The tree is living yet!
I remember, I remember
Where I was used to swing,
And thought the air must rush as fresh
To swallows on the wing;
My spirit flew in feathers then
That is so heavy now,
The summer pools could hardly cool
The fever on my brow.
I remember, I remember
The fir-trees dark and high;
I used to think their slender tops
Were close against the sky:
It was a childish ignorance,
But now 'tis little joy
To know I'm farther off from Heaven
Than when I was a boy.

I remember when
Contry schools were in!
One teacher for K - 8
Always attentive and never late
Other kids brown bags more to fuss
Baked potatoes atop the furnace
Snow forts, games, Fox and Goose
Workup at softball, hang in there loose
How about those connections state?
Spelling contests and tests relate
Christmas programs and holidays
Valentine frill box, all those ways
Now to bring things up-to-date
To greet kindergarten teacher was my fate
53 years of time to span
Remembering clearly my whole clan

Remember me on a lonely day
When sadness takes you to a place
You do not want to go.
I’ll bring you roses to ease the pain
And provide you with a melody of hope;
We’ll walk to your favorite café,
Have a cappuccino, and talk about
Dreams we cannot let escape:
Children playing on Saturday,
Church bells chiming on Sunday,
An afternoon matinee,
Everything that makes
Life beautiful and true.
Dear Lady, if you’re ever too hurt
To make it through on your own,
Please remember me.

Rise ye up in the morning
And speak unto Me,
That I might guide thy step.
Throughout the day
In those quiet moments.
Remember Me that we be not far apart.
In the evening,
Lay thy head down unto Me,
For I shall speak of how I love thee.
In sleep, dream of Me,
For there, we are together again,
Walking side by side.
Commune with Me in these little ways
And, I will in no wise forget thee,
Or our time spent together,
For I will lift thee up
Out of the Fire and bring unto Me
A clean soul to embrace,
And forever we shall walk together
In the garden of My “Highest Kingdom”
You and I together,
Forever in Me,
Amen.
5-11-06

rewind life and remember
your last bad words, your last good ones,
to him. long before the cut.
if you're not too relaxed,
picture the last conversation
and how it went. what he told you.
why you didn't listen completely.
try to push past all this recent history
to the old school grounds.
remember
tripping on a shoelace.
he helped you up, didn't he?
remember
falling off the swing.
wasn't he there to show you
how to hit the ground running?
remember how you forgot all that.
try to understand everyone's own impact.
his impact. his footprint.
if you're not too busy to mourn an early end,
stop. remember how he touched.
no matter how or when or why.
just for the record,
you're never going to see him again.

She was an evil stepmother.
In her old age she is slowly dying
in an empty hovel.
She shudders
like a clutch of burnt paper.
She does not remember that she was evil.
But she knows
that she feels cold.
Translated from the Polish by Czeslaw Milosz and Leonard Nathan
Anonymous Submission

You smiled yesterday
When all we were to each other
Was new...
Now I reach for you and you
Only stare back at me with eyes
Cold as winter winds...
Love!
What happened to your laughter?
Where did you hide my lovers arms?
Conceal his kiss?
You smiled yesterday
When all we were to each other
Was new...
Now all has changed and
I am constant through revolving doors
Of memories.
Oh! Jealous heart!
We promised never!
But you forgot to remember.

Fear breaks; Respect mends.
Fear hurts; Respect heals.
Fear suffocates; Respect motivates.
Fear arrests; Respect enables.

I respect, another mans religion, or color or creed.
I respect, and follow, the will of my maker.
I respect, the truth, no matter how unpopular.
I respect, a good work ethic.
I respect, the values on which this country was founded.
I respect, those who would champion the under privileged.
I respect, those of differences, who seek common ground.
I respect, the concept of monogamy.
I respect, those faithful to principal.
I respect, change, that is for the better.
I respect, an honest days work.
I respect, the great talents of the entertainment world.
I respect, thought provoking works, of the written word.
I respect, the unquenchable thirst of creativity.
I respect, the farmers and workers that toil in the field.
I respect, the good in man.
I respect, the virtue in woman.
I respect, the innocence of children.
I respect, the generosity of mankind.
Most of all...I respect the maker of
life and the love, that each of us
have within us.
© Joe Fazio

Men must respect other men
Women must respect other women
Men and women must respect our children
And protect them so all can go to heaven.
I cannot fully fathom the unusualness of men
Mother Nature will remain eternally natural
Mothers will give birth to men and women
And the sky will forever be conventional.
Men must respect girls and boys
They are human too, not little toys
Women must respect boys and girls
Our tootses don’t belong to a world of swirls and twirls.
If we respect each other, our world will be natural
Loving, wonderful and exceptional
Love and respect are like fraternal twins
In such godly oasis, everyone wins.
Men must respect and care for each other
Women must follow a similar procedure
Life is beautiful, thanks to Mother Nature
Who always follows the Scriptures.
Our children need our help and divine lectures
Let’s love them and protect their future
Let’s chase the devils out of the manger
Let’s be brothers and sisters and love each other.
Men must respect other men
Men and women must respect our children.

Respect and love are from the same stock.
Respect contains some amount of fear.
Love contains some amount of pity.
Respects fuels, and love sooths, the receiver.

Its as simple as this
Respect me
and ill respect you
cross me and ull see
what ill do to you
respect me
and ill respect you
hurt me and ull see
what ill do to you
respect me
and ill respec you
play me and ull see
what ill do to you.
respect me
and ill respect you
fake on me and you will see
what ill do to you.
respect me
and ill respect you
its as simple as that

Is a valued virtue,
Priceless than any treasure...
Can not sold or bought by gold!

Respect to it has more than a one sided way
Do not expect the respect of others if respect to them you don't pay
You treat other people as you'd like them to treat you
And in turn they will give you the respect you are due
You may be the wealthiest and most powerful person in your town
And you feel that you have the right for to put others down
And others respect you or so to you it does appear
But between feigned and true respect the difference is quite clear
Despotic leaders believe the masses them do revere
But this sort of feigned adulation is adulation through fear
To protest in such circumstance they'd be risking their own lives
And the lives of their children as well as their wives
If you do not respect then respect do not expect to receive
Just a known fact of life that one ought to believe.

Jesus I learned you lived and lived
Jesus we heard you died and die
Jesus I see them painting of you so white
Jesus I hear them sing, you lackey of God they sang.
Jesus I know people today use you wrong
they came with guns in hand
shot our minds with
untrue words
Black – the meaning of sin
Black – the heathen savages
Black – the false, the lies
Black – the inhuman without a home and culture
These pink skinned people say “You light of God”
and make us wash black sins to be close to white.
O, Jesus, if so you were true
You were black
fighting against a white regime.
O, Jesus, they tear away our hearts
that yell for Nature
They will do things of tension, fear, control,
death, brutality and murder to our Aboriginal people’s
beliefs.
Why they must do this O, Jesus, this once Jesus
All in the name of you
Jesus Christ
“Offering, offering, hear the pennies fall
Everyone for Jesus, the Church shall have them all”

woman...
divine made flesh,
births,
nourishes,
loves,
gives,
sensual intimacy,
spiritual companion...
the most human,
creation,
darkness and light;
the door of eternity,
opening and closing
by her will!
woman...
demands,
deserves,
RESPECT!

The moon shimmers in green water.
White herons fly through the moonlight.
The young man hears a girl gathering water-chestnuts:
into the night, singing, they paddle home together.
Li T'ai-po
tr. Hamil

I was a young man my trade was a deck hand
my first love the clipper the old Rosalea
we sailed from the old town down by the river
to Bombay and Shanghai we traded for tea
I met a young girl down by the river
she said we could marry and live on a farm
I told her I'm sorry my heart's with another
we kissed as we watched the sun o'er the yard arm
I know when my time comes and I meet my maker
I'll have no regrets I'll be happy he'll see
for I'll have my ashes cast out on the river
that I once supported and now supports me.

I hear a river thro' the valley wander
Whose water runs, the song alone remaining.
A rainbow stands and summer passes under.

My River runs to thee—
Blue Sea! Wilt welcome me?
My River wait reply—
Oh Sea—look graciously—
I'll fetch thee Brooks
From spotted nooks—
Say—Sea—Take Me!

This winter dusk, the wild goose's cry
disappears into the stone cliff:
stillness.

and the gulf enters the sea and so forth,
none of them emptying anything,
all of them carrying yesterday
forever on their white tipped backs,
all of them dragging forward tomorrow.
it is the great circulation
of the earth's body, like the blood
of the gods, this river in which the past
is always flowing. every water
is the same water coming round.
everyday someone is standing on the edge
of this river, staring into time,
whispering mistakenly:
only here. only now.

The river led me to you though the way was hard and long,
It saw me through adversity and taught me to be strong,
For when the doubts beset me that you would be waiting there,
At the river's end I saw you and it kept me from despair.
For the river kept on flowing and its water made me brave,
When I was weak and fading such encouragement it gave,
Following its winding path around each and every bend,
Until I found you waiting for me at my journey's end.
I saw you in the distance there and I began to run,
My weariness deserted me like life had just begun,
And you stood there so lonely hoping that I would return,
Our loving eyes did meet again with passion that did burn.
For the river kept us company when we were so alone,
And we found such comfort there in every rock and stone,
With waters pure we both did drink that kept us both alive,
And led us to each other through the pain we had to strive.
And when I held you once again it felt like yesterday,
That we two were parted and we both then lost our way,
But in my dreams you lingered for I never could forget,
Every time I heard your name I just got so upset.
For the river was the lifeblood and all that I did need,
To give me the courage and the power to succeed,
And yet although I stumbled and so many times did fall,
Our love did hold the answer for our love did conquer all.

The river tumbles onwards to the sea,
And rushes, racing over rocks and stones,
And boulders, branches, pebbles, sand and scree,
Singing so many melodies to me,
In whispering notes and thunderous roaring tones.
Music that lingers in the ears and mind,
Soothing confusing thoughts that come my way,
Easing all stress, so my spirit is resigned,
To watching its water ripple, swirl, glide and wind,
And giving a soft contentment to my day.
Always there, this river, which is never still,
And every night and day, how strong it flows,
Into each pool, each inlet and each new rill,
It does, my thirsty soul, with pleasure fill,
And sets my thoughts on peace, and my 'being' glows.
©   Ernestine Northover

O TWEED! a stranger, that with wand'ring feet
O'er hill and dale has journey'd many a mile,
(If so his weary thoughts he might beguile)
Delighted turns thy beauteous scenes to greet.
The waving branches that romantick bend
O'er thy tall banks, a soothing charm bestow;
The murmurs of thy wand'ring wave below
Seem to his ear the pity of a friend.
Delightful stream! tho' now along thy shore,
When spring returns in all her wonted pride,
The shepherd's distant pipe is heard no more,
Yet here with pensive peace could I abide,
Far from the stormy world's tumultuous roar,
To muse upon thy banks at eventide.

Tempered by the friction, of each others loneliness.
Brightly wooed, in our own glad glorious way.
We chasing each other, along those milky ways.
Conditions and competition, fight like mariners.
Love stars, are more dewy luminous than others.
Why separate them, a love creates poetic illusion.
A perspective, like pleasing soft melancholy music.
Happy about joyful liberation, awaking upon life.
Consequently life is also a dream, in relative ways.
Cooperation swinging in or out, of our endurance.
Farewell to daylight, we enjoy a moonlit night sky.
Ourselves no longer strangers, sing like chaffinch.

Yesterday I wrote a joke poem,
Booby Prize Or A Fine Romance,
it told the story of how I met my wife,
all those years ago.
Yes, it was at her first husband’s funeral,
and yes a group of us
met a couple weeks later in a coffee bar,
but no it was not the drawing of a straw,
it was that I volunteered,
which I guess was lucky for me,
because on the 12th of September this year
we celebrate our 37th Wedding Anniversary.
Her first husband was a friend,
but he was a womaniser.
He met his dead in a suicide pact
with a fourteen-year-old girl.
He left a wife and two small children,
without a thought or care,
a month before Christmas that year.
Some said I was brave
to take on a ready-made family.
I do not think I was brave,
but very lucky that day.
We have had our ups and downs
like all families do,
but I would not change a bit of it.
The greatest gifts I received that day,
was a family for a lonely life,
and tolerance through trouble and strife.
Therefore, it is with thanks to them,
I am the man I am today.

Sister once of weeds & a dark water that held still
In ditches reflecting the odd,
Abstaining clouds that passed, & kept
Their own counsel, we
Were different, we kept our own counsel.
Outside the tool shed in the noon heat, while our father
Ground some piece of metal
That would finally fit, with grease & an hour of pushing,
The needs of the mysterious Ford tractor,
We argued out, in adolescence,
Whole systems of mathematics, ethics,
And finally agreed that altruism,
Whose long vowel sounded like the pigeons,
Roosting stupidly & about to be shot
In the barn, was impossible
If one was born a Catholic. The Swedish
Lutherans, whom the nuns called
“Statue smashers,” the Japanese on
Neighboring farms, were, we guessed,
A little better off ....
When I was twelve, I used to stare at weeds
Along the road, at the way they kept trembling
Long after a car had passed;
Or at gnats in families hovering over
Some rotting peaches, & wonder why it was
I had been born a human.
Why not a weed, or a gnat?
Why not a horse, or a spider? And why an American?
I did not think that anything could choose me
To be a Larry Levis before there even was
A Larry Levis. It was strange, but not strange enough
To warrant some design.
On the outside,
The barn, with flaking paint, was still off-white.
Inside, it was always dark, all the way up
To the rafters where the pigeons moaned,
I later thought, as if in sexual complaint,
Or sexual abandon; I never found out which.
When I walked in with a 12-gauge & started shooting,
They fell, like gray fruit, at my feet—
Fat, thumping things that grew quieter
When their eyelids, a softer gray, closed,
Part of the way, at least,
And their friends or lovers flew out a kind of skylight
Cut for loading hay.
I don’t know, exactly, what happened then.
Except my sister moved to Switzerland.
My brother got a job
With Colgate-Palmolive.
He was selling soap in Lodi, California.
Later, in his car, & dressed
To die, or live again, forever,
I drove to my own, first wedding.
I smelled the stale boutonniere in my lapel,
A deceased young flower.
I wondered how my brother’s Buick
Could go so fast, &,
Still questioning, or catching, a last time,
An old chill from childhood,
I thought: why me, why her, & knew it wouldn’t last.

Like a lone Arab, old and blind,
Some caravan had left behind,
Who sits beside a ruin'd well,
Where the shy sand-asps bask and swell;
And now he hangs his ag{'e}d head aslant,
And listens for a human sound--in vain!
And now the aid, which Heaven alone can grant,
Upturns his eyeless face from Heaven to gain;--
Even thus, in vacant mood, one sultry hour,
Resting my eye upon a drooping plant,
With brow low-bent, within my garden-bower,
I sate upon the couch of camomile;
And--whether 'twas a transient sleep, perchance,
Flitted across the idle brain, the while
I watch'd the sickly calm with aimless scope,
In my own heart; or that, indeed a trance,
Turn'd my eye inward--thee, O genial Hope,
Love's elder sister! thee did I behold
Drest as a bridesmaid, but all pale and cold,
With roseless cheek, all pale and cold and dim,
Lie lifeless at my feet!
And then came Love, a sylph in bridal trim,
And stood beside my seat;
She bent, and kiss'd her sister's lips,
As she was wont to do;--
Alas! 'twas but a chilling breath
Woke just enough of life in death
To make Hope die anew.

Hand blessed hand, caressed.
A blushing rose, her face;
Her breast alive;
The elfin nose, a diamond set -
A kiss upon perfection
Bore a rise of pulse
To coach a sultry moan
Across a mellow breath of wine.
He knew; he sensed,
And easing loose a clasp of lace,
Another sign of her relenting:
Wild the play of eyes,
A fuller glide of skin;
He felt the now begin -
Her swell, intention in the sigh.
And so to hedge his move upon the cue -
The cry of deep anticipation,
Waxing all he saw -
Tho' not for us to view -
Arrived, emotion raw.
Copyright © Mark R Slaughter 2011
< br>
< br>
Now render to caressing waves of romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance

Who will wed the Dowager’s youngest daughter,
The Captain? filled with ale?
He moored his expected boat to a stake in the water
And stumbled on sea-legs into the Hall for mating,
Only to be seduced by her lady-in-waiting,
Round-bosomed, and not so pale.
Or the thrifty burgher in boots and fancy vest
With considered views of marriage?
By the tidy scullery maid he was impressed
Who kept that house from depreciation and dirt,
But wife does double duty and takes no hurt,
So he rode her home in his carriage.
Never the spare young scholar antiquary
Who was their next resort;
They let him wait in the crypt of the Old Library
And found him compromised with a Saxon book,
Claiming his truelove Learning kept that nook
And promised sweet disport.
Desirée (of a mother’s christening) never shall wed
Though fairest child of her womb;
“We will have revenge,” her injured Ladyship said,
“Henceforth the tightest nunnery be thy bed
By the topmost stair! When the ill-bred lovers come
We’ll say, She is not at home.”

We talk forever day and night
Embrace in the insipid moonlight
It’s impossible to deny fate
Our passion for each other is on a roll
Our feelings are so hard to control
It’s impossible to deny fate
You and me we have our struggles
But what couples don’t have troubles?
It’s impossible to deny fate
When I express my feelings everything I say is true
True love isn’t just kissing all over you
It’s impossible to deny fate
Like paper always sticks to glue
I will always be there for you
It’s impossible to deny fate
I love you because of your heart
My love for you is off the charts
It’s impossible to deny fate
Being with you is a blessing
Laughing together, singing songs, caressing
It’s impossible to deny fate
I want to stay with you for years
I’ve sworn that I will never drink beer
After the wedding we pull the car in and lock the gate
It’s impossible to deny fate

The era of romance, its beginning.
Dice used by the players was startling
In the game of numbers on chess board
To tilt the power house and it's record.
Hottest commodity than gem or platinum
Turncoats were costliest in the millenium.
A keep of treachery had become wisdom
Criminalization of politics was in blossum.
Ethics, morality became out of fashion,
New tricks were evolved by imagination.
Merit and efficiency were then displaced.
Money and muscle power to them replaced.
No one can fool all for all the times,
Players had forgotten this truth supreme.
Poet:  Ratnakar D  Mandlik

Parent of golden dreams, Romance!
Auspicious Queen of childish joys,
Who lead'st along, in airy dance,
Thy votive train of girls and boys;
At length, in spells no longer bound,
I break the fetters of my youth;
No more I tread thy mystic round,
But leave thy realms for those of Truth.
And yet 'tis hard to quit the dreams
Which haunt the unsuspicious soul,
Where every nymph a goddess seems,
Whose eyes through rays immortal roll;
While Fancy holds her boundless reign,
And all assume a varied hue;
When Virgins seem no longer vain,
And even Woman's smiles are true.
And must we own thee, but a name,
And from thy hall of clouds descend?
Nor find a Sylph in every dame,
A Pylades in every friend?
But leave, at once, thy realms of air i
To mingling bands of fairy elves;
Confess that woman's false as fair,
And friends have feeling for---themselves?
With shame, I own, I've felt thy sway;
Repentant, now thy reign is o'er;
No more thy precepts I obey,
No more on fancied pinions soar;
Fond fool! to love a sparkling eye,
And think that eye to truth was dear;
To trust a passing wanton's sigh,
And melt beneath a wanton's tear!
Romance! disgusted with deceit,
Far from thy motley court I fly,
Where Affectation holds her seat,
And sickly Sensibility;
Whose silly tears can never flow
For any pangs excepting thine;
Who turns aside from real woe,
To steep in dew thy gaudy shrine.
Now join with sable Sympathy,
With cypress crown'd, array'd in weeds,
Who heaves with thee her simple sigh,
Whose breast for every bosom bleeds;
And call thy sylvan female choir,
To mourn a Swain for ever gone,
Who once could glow with equal fire,
But bends not now before thy throne.
Ye genial Nymphs, whose ready tears
On all occasions swiftly flow;
Whose bosoms heave with fancied fears,
With fancied flames and phrenzy glow
Say, will you mourn my absent name,
Apostate from your gentle train
An infant Bard, at least, may claim
From you a sympathetic strain.
Adieu, fond race! a long adieu!
The hour of fate is hovering nigh;
E'en now the gulf appears in view,
Where unlamented you must lie:
Oblivion's blackening lake is seen,
Convuls'd by gales you cannot weather,
Where you, and eke your gentle queen,
Alas! must perish altogether.

I'd like to write a romantic comedy
in four acts like Will Shakespeare did
Tragedy's not for me, you can see
by the bells and cap I wear
Clad like a court jester I can
dance and caper
with love as my chief motive
I adore outdoor action
the forest of Arden
populated by the likes
of Rosalind and Celia
Phebe and Audrey
daughters and country wenches
I could idealize a heroine
who usually masks herself
as a man, a swain, one
who deceives and is
deceived in turn
I would subject love to great
difficulty before consummation
in the darkest forests of night
'Amor vincit omnia! '
I would not render poetic justice
any oaf of a writer does that
My outcomes would be logical
& necessary -
how the characters act based
on their principles
I would balance characters
good guys over here
villains over there
reconciliation would be easy
in my romantic comedies
All's well that ends well
would be the keynote
struck in all its glory
by spooning lovers
Never mind love's labor
lost in a midsummer night's
dream even though all in all
it may be much ado about
nothing
but that's as I like it!

On such a cloudy day why you are far away?
Lightning is writing in sky what I want to say
The cloudy sky is like my gloomy face
The thunderbolts are showing my distress
The raindrops are like my sorrowful tears
My soul is on your way like pioneers
The murmur of the leaves is like my whisper
Please meet me in such a romantic weather

The romantic one is the rarest one
And he is just not like the other folks
You must learn, my dear, how to talk
To him, unlike those common folks.
Don't bore him with your silly folk tales
He has finer tastes, not coarse like ale
Don't expect of him the heathen tongues
Or folk dance set to cheap barbaric songs.
Talk to him in sweetness, of love, romance
Reach out to his heart with gentle cadence
Utter not a rude word, a single rude word
Or play with him silly, dirty mind games
For he of gentle nature might take offence
And once his mood is off
He may for ever switch off
What shall you gain by losing such a one
A romantic guy is the rarest one
If ever you find a romantic man
Latch on to him as fast as you can
For once he goes, you'll never ever
Find in this life another for sure.
He of classic mind will abhor folk things
He'll seek harmony in even littlest things
Don't expect him to folk dance
For he'll dance ballet in the evenings
And he'll take you to the night's ball
And waltz you down the aisle
And lock his rings with your rings.
Your Kashmiri is at best a folk dance
While Odishi has a pure classical stance
If you want to be in love with the Classics
Just leave your folks behind, and embrace
Some of your lover's romantic basics.
Bring him to mood with your sweetest words
If sweet ones you know not, just avoid rude words
Reach out to him with your sweetest songs
And he is sure to sing his own sweet songs
Soon your melody will make his heart dance
And in his hour of joy he'll quickly embrace
You to his bosom in thrall, my dear Beloved
As a sweet wife in love to her man belonged.

It is a feeling which cannot be explained,
When your mind stops working and your heart is over-strained.
You are in a state of absolute delight,
And the face of your beloved always blurs your sight.
When poetry comes naturally,
And sleep eludes regularly,
When walking turns into prancing,
And you feel like singing and dancing.
When your beloved’s comfort and happiness becomes your obsession,
And your reason is repeatedly kicked by your passion.
Then ‘Love’ is the name of your condition,
For which there is only one prescribed medication:
'An equal love from your lover’s side',
This will calm your nerves and peace will reside.
Unrequited love is like severe body ache,
After all, the spurned lover’s heart is at stake.
His / Her eyes are water fountains,
He / She knows that true love can move mountains,
So he / she never stops trying,
Keeps heaving, hoping and crying.
But when love is reciprocated,
Every sentiment uttered for the beloved, seems exaggerated.
The thought of separation is unimaginable,
And feelings and sentiments become totally unmanageable.
The finest of all human sentiments,
‘Love’ knows no divisions, boundaries or impediments.
It spares no mortal soul,
In our lives, ‘Love’ plays an important role.

You're eyes are blue,
The Sky is too,
Can love be also,
Color Blue?
I float away,
Images blue,
Today, they play,
A Waltz in blue,
A Rhapsody,
Also in Blue.
White is so pure,
But so is blue,
Blue oceans bring me,
Close to You,
Your eyes, your look,
The color blue,
Can love be just,
Blue thoughts of you?

Romance is a must for most young hearts
Gestures of love broken in tiny parts
A dozen roses, a chocolate heart,
Writing a poem with all your heart,
A cute little card with x’s and o’s
Sittin’ by the fire warming your toes
A candle lit dinner down by the beach
You both come in a pair not in a peach
Long conversations late into the night
Love is there and romance is in sight
Just a bear hug for you just like this
Romance is even just the right kiss…

A winsome youth, whose visage bore
A galaxy of pimples on the forehead,
Noticed a girl running ahead
While tramping up a country road.
She seemed to float afar to catch up
With her runaway cat or puppy.  He strode
As fast as the muscles of his legs allowed
The pursuit of a dream.  Her tousled hair
Tumbled around her shoulders.  When he reached
The field where she was coyly cuddling her pet,
He tugged the visor of his cap over the forehead and
Flung the scarf around his face to hide the pimples.
She knew him from the market, with his twin dimples
In a horizontal smile, an enigmatic ‘emoticon',
Perhaps to be unravelled in a shared lifetime. Perhaps.
Can we intuitively feel the emotions of other people,
Protagonists or dramatis personae,
Whom we know or meet in life or read about
In histories, biographies, fairy tales and fictional romance?
Like the tug a man may feel
When attracted by a face or form or grace in motion,
Such as a runner at the finish?
‘I' is the slimmest letter in the Latin script of English,
But how bloated with meaning it is!
"Cogito, ergo sum".
U-go, I-go, Ego.

★Sour, Sweet, Bitter Are Romantic Love.
☆Luo Zhihai Lyrics & Translation
Listened to you murmured on the phone.
You doted and took pity on me.
You tired of drifting dreaming home
Weak lovesickness between you and me.
Dear Ah Hua, my dear sweetheart,
Please came with a bunch of wild lily.
Full of fragrance of spring around me.
My soft and weak heart was not alone.
Saw that you were into a trance.
You sincerely liked and loved me.
Your glowing eyes were burning love.
Both of us fell in love, fell in love.
Dear Ah Hua, my dear sweetheart,
Please went with a heart to heart lock.
Huangshan Hill Clouds changed magic so much.
Head over heels we were in love.
In spring, summer, autamn and winter.
You like a fire, I look of love.
Dawn, night, wind, rain, moon and sun, .
I am not weak after your care.
Love each other forever, we love.
Sour, sweet, bitter are romantic love.
At 16: 00 on the September 28, to at 12: 30 on October 3,2010 wrote & translated.
▲Chinese Text
★酸甜苦辣都是浪漫情歌
☆罗志海歌词
聆听你喃喃地反复 诉说
你耐心地宠我哄我怜我
你梦萦故乡厌倦了漂泊
两地相思身心疲惫脆弱
亲 爱的阿华哥呀阿华哥
请你来时带一束野百合
满屋飘逸芬芳明媚春色
婀娜芳心从此远离 寂寞
看见你痴痴地失魂落魄
你真心地疼我惜我爱我
你炽热的双眼燃烧爱火< br>你有情我有意情投意合
亲爱的阿华哥呀阿华哥
请你走时带一把连心锁
黄山云海 翻腾神奇莫测
携手连心我俩永沐爱河
寒风凛冽再度骄阳似火
你热情似火我含 情脉脉
彩霞满天瞬间大雨滂沱
你细心呵护我不再柔弱
我俩一起饱经爱恨折磨
酸甜苦辣都是浪漫情歌
2010年9月28日16: 00至10月3日12: 30作词翻译

The romantic,
How to get myself popular,
You say it,
I want to be a romantic,
How to be?
Should I dress myself,
Up-to-date, modern, frank and daring in my outlook
Or should I bring the used in boots, shirts and pants
Of my or your father, grandfather and great grandfather
As for to be a romantic?
An impressionist, a transcendentalist,
A smoker and writer
Experimenting with the cheroot and the cigarette,
The beedi and the hookah
To be a romantic,
A romantic writer.
Sometimes as a hippie, sometimes as a gipsy,
Isn't it,
Isn't the sweet dreams of yours,
But mark it
That such a living may be dangerous too
As this may mislead you too?
The drug-trafficker and the woman-trafficker,
The mafia don and the smuggler everywhere,
Just for to be a writer,
A romantic and mystic,
A transcendentalist and impressionist,
You destroy not yourself.

O my Luve's like a red, red rose
That's newly sprung in June;
O my Luve's like the melodie
That's sweetly play'd in tune.
As fair art thou, my bonnie lass,
So deep in luve am I:
And I will luve thee still, my dear,
Till a' the seas gang dry:
Till a' the seas gang dry, my dear,
And the rocks melt wi' the sun:
I will luve thee still, my dear,
While the sands o' life shall run.
And fare thee well, my only Luve
And fare thee well, a while!
And I will come again, my Luve,
Tho' it were ten thousand mile.

Drift upon the breeze
like gentle whispers heard in the wind.
Taking you high through the trees
bringing you down low among the flowers.
You caress my cheek softly, gently.
I feel you, I know you are here.
Fly high my butterfly, fly high
I reach out, touch the velvety softness of your wing,
gracefully you glide into my outstretched hand.
Your wings dancing to the beat of my heart, .
a tender kiss of love for my aching soul.
I feel you, I know you are here.
Fly high my butterfly, fly high
The flight of gossamer dreams
are you, with your wings of yellow and blue.
You are what you seem,
the spirit of my beloved child, so true.
Comforting all who believe.
I feel you, I know you are here.
Fly high my butterfly, fly high

If I were a rose and you were a leaf,
the thorns would not grow upon my tree.
You would bask in the glory of beauty spent.
Content to reside where my heart went.
Daily collecting of sunshine you might...
My caress would fall like soft candlelight...
Savoring your soul until the darkest night.
We would grow together like the leaves from a vine.
Forever, my love, through the end of time.
Until December when the rose wilts away.
I will wait until the first blooms of May
Forsaking others for the burning within.
Only to chance have I become whole again.
Mixed with the spirit of a lover's light.
Together the lady and her poet knight.
If I were the rose and you were the leaf...
Copyright 2006 A.J. McKinley

A rose made of blood
where the thorn cruelly cuts me
blossoms in my palm.
I, a rose...made of flesh...blood
rivalling thorn's red flower.
*******
Thorn bleeds with my blood
pouring red into white rose
my humanity
unable to change Nature's
design - white rose remain...white.
******
I received the tangled hair...it is beautiful...thank you.

F Zeus chose us a King of the flowers in his mirth,
He would call to the rose, and would royally crown it;
For the rose, ho, the rose! is the grace of the earth,
Is the light of the plants that are growing upon it!
For the rose, ho, the rose! is the eye of the flowers,
Is the blush of the meadows that feel themselves fair,
Is the lightning of beauty that strikes through the bowers
On pale lovers that sit in the glow unaware.
Ho, the rose breathes of love! ho, the rose lifts the cup
To the red lips of Cypris invoked for a guest!
Ho, the rose having curled its sweet leaves for the world
Takes delight in the motion its petals keep up,
As they laugh to the wind as it laughs from the west.

'O WHICH is the last rose?'
A blossom of no name.
At midnight the snow came;
At daybreak a vast rose,
In darkness unfurl'd,
O'er-petall'd the world.
Its odourless pallor
Blossom'd forlorn,
Till radiant valour
Establish'd the morn--
Till the night
Was undone
In her fight
With the sun.
The brave orb in state rose,
And crimson he shone first;
While from the high vine
Of heaven the dawn burst,
Staining the great rose
From sky-line to sky-line.
The red rose of morn
A white rose at noon turn'd;
But at sunset reborn
All red again soon burn'd.
Then the pale rose of noonday
Rebloom'd in the night,
And spectrally white
In the light
Of the moon lay.
But the vast rose
Was scentless,
And this is the reason:
When the blast rose
Relentless,
And brought in due season
The snow rose, the last rose
Congeal'd in its breath,
Then came with it treason;
The traitor was Death.
In lee-valleys crowded,
The sheep and the birds
Were frozen and shrouded
In flights and in herds.
In highways
And byways
The young and the old
Were tortured and madden'd
And kill'd by the cold.
But many were gladden'd
By the beautiful last rose,
The blossom of no name
That came when the snow came,
In darkness unfurl'd--
The wonderful vast rose
That fill'd all the world.

All things uncomely and broken,
All things worn-out and old,
The cry of a child by the roadway,
The creak of a lumbering cart,
The heavy steps of the ploughman,
splashing the wintry mould,
Are wronging your image that blossoms
A rose in the deeps of my heart.
The wrong of unshapely things
Is a wrong too great to be told;
I hunger to build them anew
And sit on a green knoll apart,
With the earth and the sky and the water,
Remade, like a casket of gold
For my dreams of your image that blossoms
A rose in the deeps of my heart.

'O WORDS are lightly spoken,'
Said Pearse to Connolly,
'Maybe a breath of politic words
Has withered our Rose Tree;
Or maybe but a wind that blows
Across the bitter sea.'
'It needs to be but watered,'
James Connolly replied,
'To make the green come out again
And spread on every side,
And shake the blossom from the bud
To be the garden's pride.'
'But where can we draw water,'
Said Pearse to Connolly,
'When all the wells are parched away?
O plain as plain can be
There's nothing but our own red blood
Can make a right Rose Tree.'

Go, happy Rose, and interwove
With other flowers, bind my Love.
Tell her, too, she must not be
Longer flowing, longer free,
That so oft has fetter'd me.
Say, if she's fretful, I have bands
Of pearl and gold, to bind her hands;
Tell her, if she struggle still,
I have myrtle rods at will,
For to tame, though not to kill.
Take thou my blessing thus, and go
And tell her this,--but do not so!--
Lest a handsome anger fly
Like a lightning from her eye,
And burn thee up, as well as I!

Trailing thunders in a swipe..
Hundreds chatting, hundreds eating
Within the boundary of my running
Along each count of a bogie..
Next sec
Racing brain mutes like a yogi
Standing still to realise

I am running my fingers
Through your hair
And your hair
Feels so
Soft
Like silk

White
silk scarf
waves
in her
wake - the train
of her
gown.
Crossing
fields of wheat,
her feet are scorched
by flames of
sunset.
She
escapes.
< br>Fly away
if love
is
a gold
cage.

running circles in the dark
wanting nothing but the pain to stop
wishing my life would depart
i scream but no one hears me
like no one can see
wishing some one could try and help me
but no one likes me
so how can they try and love me
i mean who esle can i be
so ill stay here forever
running circles in the dark
with my life falling apart
im in a place where the pain will never stop
running circles in the dark

Running into the light
Because I want
To catch the
Heat of the sun
All over my body

That dark figure running –
Sprinting ahead – is not your friend,
just a solitary shadow playing pretend.
It’s your secrets, your hopes and all your fears.
It’s your infectious laugh, and your uncried tears.
All your wishes and all your dreams,
being smothered by your static screams.
He holds, in a package under his arm,
your spark, your wit, your fun and charm.
All bundled up, and wrapped with a bow,
as you just stand and watch it go.
Everything stolen - over and done,
Desperate to save it, but you just can’t run.
He rounds the corner, your world goes dark,
a disposable lighter, unable to spark.
That dark figure running –
Sprinting ahead – is not your friend.
It was your future.

A silent tear falls to the ground
She hides in her place, not making a sound.
Grief had invaded her body for years
And now it was time for her to face her fears.
She cut her wrists and covered her eyes
And whispered that today was the day she dies.
She stared at herself through the glass
Then punched the mirror to get rid of her past.
The glass fell softly onto the floor
She stared at her fist then ran out the door.
She ran down the hallway really fast
But she could not run away from her past.
After thinking, she gave up on life
She went to the room and got a knife.
She said her goodbyes as she took one last breath
Then slit her throat deep and the blood surrounded her death.
One thing that girl should have known
Is that she would be dead and alone.
And that you can’t escape death or life,
In that one spot where her blood stays on the knife.
So where there is a silent tear
And where there is blood to shed
She will be there to put their misery
To An End

During an open air
production of the DREAM
you pucker up
& whisper
“I suppose a quick Puck
would be out of the question? ”
you snigger.
Never one to disappoint a lady
I acquiesce to her request
(at a loss for words)
I merely murmur:
“Yesssssssssssss! ”
under my breath.
We lose ourselves
in the woods
as Shakespeare’s
words
surround us.
“I come...I come
see how I come! ”
you shout.
“Shhhh...! ”
I say
... trying to be faster than an arrow from a Tartar’s bow.
Once more
lost in words
your hair
full of tell-tale
twigs & grasses
skirt too hastily tucked in knickers
(you a brazen hussey…me a bit Byronic)
we listen enthralled
to our
beating hearts
the course of our
true love
running smooth.
Oh, I’m sure
Mr. Shakespeare
would not have
disapproved!

As less on earth seek truth above
As fewer people care
So rare becomes fragrance of love
While lust pollutes the air
Lust for silver for gold and jewels
For neighbour’s wares and wives
Lust to serve as Satan’s tools
Cursing and ruining lives
But who has faith enough to hear?
Who’s wise enough to see?
Knowledge enough The Lord to fear
And live by Royal decree
How will Jesus greet His bride?
Faithful wealthy and well
Or will she run and seek to hide?
Down life’s dark road to hell
Just as Adam had done before
As Eve bowed down to shame
We close to God and life our door
Denying Jesus’ name
Denying truth of Heaven’s Seed
Author of life and light
Cultivating satanic weed
Walking in ways contrite
Sinking to depths before unknown
As expert in the shade
Denying still The Royal Throne
Of Him through whom we’re made
Will God forgive who’ve misbehaved?
Each wayward wanton crime
Through Jesus Christ the way’s well paved
Yet only whilst there’s time

I remember in the fifties, I stayed for my school dinners
At six sided tables, with six chairs to match
I remember on walls, having all the art class winners
Whilst the dinner ladies served our food by batch
I remember lots of water, in a very large glass jug
With a glass for every diner in its place
I remember as I poured, it would give out a sudden glug
Causing droplets that would often hit your face
I remember smelly cabbage, with lots of lumpy mash
A tray sliced up with equal bits of pie
I remember thick brown gravy, it landed with a splash
That could blind you if it got you in the eye
I remember all the puddings, with custard steaming hot
You could only have if finishing your greens
I remember all the groaning as we finished off the lot
And the sickly taste from piles of butter beans
I remember taking turns, to have the custards skin
Had to scrape it off before the stuff would pour
I remember in the fifties, that none of us were thin
As the puddings kept us going back for more
© 2008 David Threadgold
Rambling Riddles & Rhymes

Black holes or big bang
Gravitational forces
Prove you can't have both
black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory

first day at school
the other children look into me
for sign of similar fear
inspired by
First Day at School
A millionbillionwillion miles from home
Waiting for the bell to go. (To go where?)
Why are they all so big, other children?
So noisy? So much at home they
Must have been born in uniform
Lived all their lives in playgrounds
Spent the years inventing games
That don't let me in. Games
That are rough, that swallow you up.
And the railings.
All around, the railings.
Are they to keep out wolves and monsters?
Things that carry off and eat children?
Things you don't take sweets from?
Perhaps they're to stop us getting out
Running away from the lessins. Lessin.
What does a lessin look like?
Sounds small and slimy.
They keep them in the glassrooms.
Whole rooms made out of glass. Imagine.
I wish I could remember my name
Mummy said it would come in useful.
Like wellies. When there's puddles.
Yellowwellies. I wish she was here.
I think my name is sewn on somewhere
Perhaps the teacher will read it for me.
Tea-cher. The one who makes the tea.
Roger McGough #19

It's the final day as we all take photographs and say goodbye; a thought goes through my mind.
I may never see any of you again. I don't want to let go of the many memories we have made.
Yet I know that will not happen as the memories we have created have been engraved on my heart and left a deep impression in my mind.
Your kindness and caring attitude has been an inspiration and so have you, and I look forward to the future where in some distant lifetime we will meet again and relive the old times and the old memories.
This is what makes me cherish the true friends I have now.

O the pressures of school
It is so heavy I feel like a mule
Slave everyday
I do not want to stay
O the pressures of school
The teachers know everything
And we know nothing
Choosing is not a choice
We are taught to be successful from people who are not
Just wish to be and wish us to be
But they know most of us will fail
Because we will bail
And live in jail
So we can tell our tale
Of how badly we wanted to prevail
But the pressures of school were too great
I don’t think they remember what its like to be in high school
Don’t they remember the pressures from their teachers to be better?
From there students to do drugs and smoke?
To choose to do shit that makes pressures go away but bring some different pressures?
At least we have a choice to do that shit
I think that’s where kids get caught
Choice, freedom, rebel…
Sweet sounds for a teenager worth the price
We hold the dice when it comes to these decisions
Finally we can control something
We are our own bosses
Yes we may loose
But lucky seven
Will take us to heaven
It is not easy finishing school
We are also just starting our complicated lives
Yes we need some guidance
But we don’t need to be on a choke hold
We don’t want to do what we’re told
We have pressures from society
From our family
From the academy
Hell we even have pressures from the TV!
Yet they still don’t see the large burden they put on our shoulders
They think, ‘what can some more pressure do?
Besides this pressure is good for you.’
All I want to do is write poetry
It is my drug
So I don’t have the pressures of taking drugs
It is my addiction
So I don’t need any smokes
It is in my family
So I don’t need pressures from my family
It is even my TV
So I don’t need a TV
So I can tell myself how I am supposed to look and how I am supposed to live my life
It is all I want from school
I know my English and I know how I feel
So I don’t need the pressures of school
All you need to be a poet
Is to turn your feelings into words
You don’t have to be successful
As long as it feeds you’re own pressures rather than the pressures of society
Yet O the pressures of school are so great
I cannot escape
Until their pressures are obliterate

love school very much
! Good child.
I dream about school
every day.
! That's nice.
School is the soure to
succeed.
! oh i love school.
School is not where you go
and became to fight
! that's right.
School is the resolution of
education.
! oh i love learning.
school is not a toy to play with.
! that's right.
I hate when people are given
opportunity to learn and don`t
want to be serious.
! please be serious.
I love school and I will always
! Good child.

Some of your classes might be boring,
But don’t you dare get caught snoring.
Get your homework done,
Then go out and have some fun.
Go out and party all night long,
But don’t forget your report on ping-pong.
There is only one solution to it all,
Get your homework done in study hall.
So when it’s time for school
Be cool.
Don’t be a fool.

O what a joyous joyous day
Is that on which we come
At the recess from school away,
Each lad to his own home!
What though the coach is crammëd full,
The weather very warm;
Think you a boy of us is dull,
Or feels the slightest harm?
The dust and sun is life and fun;
The hot and sultry weather
A higher zest gives every breast,
Thus jumbled all together.
Sometimes we laugh aloud, aloud,
Sometimes huzzah, huzzah.
Who is so buoyant, free, and proud
As we home travellers are?
But sad, but sad is every lad
That day on which we come,
That last last day on which away
We all come from our home.
The coach too full is found to be;
Why is it crammëd thus?
Now every one can plainly see
There's not half room for us.
Soon we exclaim, O shame, O shame,
This hot and sultry weather,
Who but our master is to blame
Who packed us thus together!
Now dust and sun does every one
Most terribly annoy;
Complaints begun, soon every one
Elbows his neighbour boy.
Not now the joyous laugh goes round,
We shout not now huzzah;
A sadder group may not be found
Than we returning are.

It was a remote village,
A school teacher single,
With boys of assorted age,
Had to manage and tackle.
'Boys, Inspector, any time,
To inspect the school,
Is expected to come,
Be smart, ready and cool.'
'He may, perhaps, ask you,
The shape of the world,
My snuff box, all of you
See how it is round.'
'I'll keep it on my table,
For your remembrance here,
One of you should be able
To answer, have no fear.'
Suddenly on a Sunday,
Knowing it was a holiday,
He came to inspect, on his way
To his own village nearby.
The teacher rang the bell.
The boys were puzzled.
It was short of a hell,
To have them assembled.
Boys with unkempt hair,
Boys with soiled dress,
Boys with faces poor,
Took their seats in the class.
The teacher in a hurry,
Kept a square snuff box,
And was feeling sorry,
To miss his round box.
The boys, as expected,
Heard the same query
With their hands raised,
Kept the answer ready.
Up one of them stood,
And promptly he said,
'Square on all Sundays
And round on other days.'

825
An Hour is a Sea
Between a few, and me—
With them would Harbor be—

Beyond the sea, beyond the sea,
My heart is gone, far, far from me;
And ever on its track will flee
My thoughts, my dreams, beyond the sea.
Beyond the sea, beyond the sea,
The swallow wanders fast and free:
Oh, happy bird! were I like thee,
I, too, would fly beyond the sea.
Beyond the sea, beyond the sea,
Are kindly hearts and social glee:
But here for me they may not be;
My heart is gone beyond the sea.

Science, that simple saint, cannot be bothered
Figuring what anything is for:
Enough for her devotions that things are
And can be contemplated soon as gathered.
She knows how every living thing was fathered,
She calculates the climate of each star,
She counts the fish at sea, but cannot care
Why any one of them exists, fish, fire or feathered.
Why should she? Her religion is to tell
By rote her rosary of perfect answers.
Metaphysics she can leave to man:
She never wakes at night in heaven or hell
Staring at darkness. In her holy cell
There is no darkness ever: the pure candle
Burns, the beads drop briskly from her hand.
Who dares to offer Her the curled sea shell!
She will not touch it!--knows the world she sees
Is all the world there is! Her faith is perfect!
And still he offers the sea shell . . .
What surf
Of what far sea upon what unknown ground
Troubles forever with that asking sound?
What surge is this whose question never ceases?

Out of the delicate dream of the distance an emerald emerges
Veiled in the violet folds of the air of the sea;
Softly the dream grows awakening -- shimmering white of a city,
Splashes of crimson, the gay bougainvillea, the palms.
High in the infinite blue of its heaven a quiet cloud lingers,
Lost and forgotten of winds that have fallen asleep,
Fallen asleep to the tune of a Portuguese song in a garden.

The flesh is sad, Alas! and I have read all the books.
Let’s go! Far off. Let’s go! I sense
that the birds, intoxicated, fly
deep into unknown spume and sky!
Nothing – not even old gardens mirrored by eyes –
can restrain this heart that drenches itself in the sea,
O nights, or the abandoned light of my lamp,
on the void of paper, that whiteness defends,
no, not even the young woman feeding her child.
I will go! Steamer, straining at your ropes
lift your anchor towards an exotic rawness!
A Boredom, made desolate by cruel hope
still believes in the last goodbye of handkerchiefs!
And perhaps the masts, inviting lightning,
are those the gale bends over shipwrecks,
lost, without masts, without masts, no fertile islands...
But, oh my heart, listen to the sailors’ chant!

A gallant city has been builded far
In the pied heaven,
Bannered with crimson, sentinelled by star
Of crystal even;
Around a harbor of the twilight glowing,
With jubilant waves about its gateways flowing
A city of the Land of Lost Delight,
On seas enchanted,
Presently to be lost in mist moon-white
And music-haunted;
Given but briefly to our raptured vision,
With all its opal towers and shrines elysian.
Had we some mystic boat with pearly oar
And wizard pilot,
To guide us safely by the siren shore
And cloudy islet,
We might embark and reach that shining portal
Beyond which linger dreams and joys immortal.
But we may only gaze with longing eyes
On those far, sparkling
Palaces in the fairy-peopled skies,
O'er waters darkling,
Until the winds of night come shoreward roaming,
And the dim west has only gray and gloaming.

The dead child lay in the shroud,
And the widow watched beside;
And her mother slept, and the Channel swept
The gale in the teeth of the tide.
But the mother laughed at all.
"I have lost my man in the sea,
And the child is dead.  Be still," she said,
"What more can ye do to me?"
The widow watched the dead,
And the candle guttered low,
And she tried to sing the Passing Song
That bids the poor soul go.
And "Mary take you now," she sang,
"That lay against my heart."
And "Mary smooth your crib to-night,"
But she could not say "Depart."
Then came a cry from the sea,
But the sea-rime blinded the glass,
And "Heard ye nothing, mother?" she said,
"'Tis the child that waits to pass."
And the nodding mother sighed.
"'Tis a lambing ewe in the whin,
For why should the christened soul cry out
That never knew of sin?"
"O feet I have held in my hand,
O hands at my heart to catch,
How should they know the road to go,
And how should they lift the latch?"
They laid a sheet to the door,
With the little quilt atop,
That it might not hurt from the cold or the dirt,
But the crying would not stop.
The widow lifted the latch
And strained her eyes to see,
And opened the door on the bitter shore
To let the soul go free.
There was neither glimmer nor ghost,
There was neither spirit nor spark,
And "Heard ye nothing, mother?" she said,
"'Tis crying for me in the dark."
And the nodding mother sighed:
"'Tis sorrow makes ye dull;
Have ye yet to learn the cry of the tern,
Or the wail of the wind-blown gull?"
"The terns are blown inland,
The gray gull follows the plough.
'Twas never a bird, the voice I heard,
O mother, I hear it now!"
"Lie still, dear lamb, lie still;
The child is passed from harm,
'Tis the ache in your breast that broke your rest,
And the feel of an empty arm."
She put her mother aside,
"In Mary's name let be!
For the peace of my soul I must go," she said,
And she went to the calling sea.
In the heel of the wind-bit pier,
Where the twisted weed was piled,
She came to the life she had missed by an hour,
For she came to a little child.
She laid it into her breast,
And back to her mother she came,
But it would not feed and it would not heed,
Though she gave it her own child's name.
And the dead child dripped on her breast,
And her own in the shroud lay stark;
And "God forgive us, mother," she said,
"We let it die in the dark!"

There are certain things -a spider, a ghost,
The income-tax, gout, an umbrella for three -
That I hate, but the thing that I hate the most
Is a thing they call the SEA.
Pour some salt water over the floor -
Ugly I'm sure you'll allow it to be:
Suppose it extended a mile or more,
That's very like the SEA.
Beat a dog till it howls outright -
Cruel, but all very well for a spree;
Suppose that one did so day and night,
That would be like the SEA.
I had a vision of nursery-maids;
Tens of thousands passed by me -
All leading children with wooden spades,
And this was by the SEA.
Who invented those spades of wood?
Who was it cut them out of the tree?
None, I think, but an idiot could -
Or one that loved the SEA.
It is pleasant and dreamy, no doubt, to float
With `thoughts as boundless, and souls as free';
But suppose you are very unwell in a boat,
How do you like the SEA.
There is an insect that people avoid
(Whence is derived the verb `to flee')
Where have you been by it most annoyed?
In lodgings by the SEA.
If you like coffee with sand for dregs,
A decided hint of salt in your tea,
And a fishy taste in the very eggs -
By all means choose the SEA.
And if, with these dainties to drink and eat,
You prefer not a vestige of grass or tree,
And a chronic state of wet in your feet,
Then -I recommend the SEA.
For I have friends who dwell by the coast,
Pleasant friends they are to me!
It is when I'm with them I wonder most
That anyone likes the SEA.
They take me a walk: though tired and stiff,
To climb the heights I madly agree:
And, after a tumble or so from the cliff,
They kindly suggest the SEA.
I try the rocks, and I think it cool
That they laugh with such an excess of glee,
As I heavily slip into every pool,
That skirts the cold, cold SEA.

SHALL I thus ever long, and be no whit the neare?
And shall I still complain to thee, the which me will not hear?
Alas! say nay! say nay! and be no more so dumb,
But open thou thy manly mouth and say that thou wilt come:
Whereby my heart may think, although I see not thee,
That thou wilt come--thy word so sware--if thou a live man be.
The roaring hugy waves they threaten my poor ghost,
And toss thee up and down the seas in danger to be lost.
Shall they not make me fear that they have swallowed thee?
--But as thou art most sure alive, so wilt thou come to me.
Whereby I shall go see thy ship ride on the strand,
And think and say Lo where he comes and Sure here will he land:
And then I shall lift up to thee my little hand,
And thou shalt think thine heart in ease, in health to see me stand.
And if thou come indeed (as Christ thee send to do!)
Those arms which miss thee now shall then embrace [and hold] thee too:
Each vein to every joint the lively blood shall spread
Which now for want of thy glad sight doth show full pale and dead.
But if thou slip thy troth, and do not come at all,
As minutes in the clock do strike so call for death I shall:
To please both thy false heart and rid myself from woe,
That rather had to die in troth than live forsaken so!

Physician of my sin-sick soul,
To thee I bring my case;
My raging malady control,
And heal me by thy grace.
Pity the anguish I endure,
See how I mourn and pine;
For never can I hope a cure
From any hand but thine.
I would disclose my whole complaint,
But where shall I begin?
No words of mine can fully paint
That worst distemper, sin.
It lies not in a single part,
But through my frame is spread;
A burning fever in my heart,
A palsy in my head.
It makes me deaf, and dumb, and blind,
And impotent and lame;
And overclouds, and fills my mind,
With folly, fear, and shame.
A thousand evil thoughts intrude
Tumultuous in my breast;
Which indispose me for my food,
And rob me of my rest.
Lord I am sick, regard my cry,
And set my spirit free;
Say, canst thou let a sinner die,
Who longs to live to thee?

'Tis sweet to him, who all the week
Through city-crowds must push his way,
To stroll alone through fields and woods,
And hallow thus the Sabbath-day.
And sweet it is, in summer bower,
Sincere, affectionate and gay,
One's own dear children feasting round,
To celebrate one's marriage-day.
But what is all, to his delight,
Who having long been dommed to roam,
Throws off the bundle from his back,
Before the door of his own home?
Home-sickness is a wasting pang;
This feel I hourly more and more:
There's healing only in thy wings,
Thou Breeze that play'st on Albion's shore!

I will break into your thoughts
With what's written on my heart
I will break, break
I'm so sick, infected with
Where I live
Let me live without this
Empty bliss, selfishness
I'm so sick
I'm so sick
If you want more of this
We can push out, sell out, die out
So you'll shut up
And stay sleeping
With my screaming in your itching ears
I'm so sick, infected with
Where I live
Let me live without this
Empty bliss, selfishness
I'm so sick
I'm so sick
Hear it, I'm screaming it
You're heeding to it now
Hear it, I'm screaming it
You tremble at this sound
You sink into my clothes
This invasion makes me feel
Worthless, hopeless, sick
I'm so sick, infected with
Where I live
Let me live without this
Empty bliss, selfishness
I'm so, I'm so sick
I'm so sick, infected with
Where I live
Let me live without this
Empty bliss, selfishness
I'm so (I'm so)
I'm so sick (I'm so sick)
I'm so (I'm so)
I'm so sick (I'm so sick)

I am ready to give my breath to my sick friend who was in the hospital.
New ferry is far away,
And already I missed my ferry.
If I can disguise as a beautiful nurse
And enter your ward at midnight.
When I give you a big kiss
Definitely you will wake up and shout 'Tina'.
Then I will say 'sorry Denis it's me'.
A male nurse wants to see your health.

Sick for all...
All are sick...
Today...
Morden world...
Sick is not disease
Sick is little of
Back pain...
Little of leg pain...
Little of sneezy...
Little of head ache...
Little of tired....
All are sick...
Sick for all...above
With a badley life style...

Adverts? asks the television
Again.
I switch it off
in a spasm of white noise
and leave the scene.
Behind, it comes lurching out of the bath
blood stained focus says
adverts
Must have forgotten the freeview.
Unplug at the wall.
(Note; if you haven't seen 'Fatal Attraction' the bath reference may not make much sense)

Sick is
Not a sick...
With smile of
Men and women...
Smile...
With kill  your sick...
With out smile...
you are good sick patient...!

When first my old, old love I knew,
My bosom welled with joy;
My riches at her feet I threw;
I was a love-sick boy!
No terms seemed too extravagant
Upon her to employ -
I used to mope, and sigh, and pant,
Just like a love-sick boy!
But joy incessant palls the sense;
And love unchanged will cloy,
And she became a bore intense
Unto her love-sick boy?
With fitful glimmer burnt my flame,
And I grew cold and coy,
At last, one morning, I became
Another's love-sick boy!

O Youth and Joy, your airy tread
Too lightly springs by Sorrow's bed,
Your keen eye-glances are too bright,
Too restless for a sick man's sight.
Farewell; for one short life we part:
I rather woo the soothing art,
Which only souls in sufferings tried
Bear to their suffering brethren's side.
Where may we learn that gentle spell?
Mother of Martyrs, thou canst tell!
Thou, who didst watch thy dying Spouse
With pierced hands and bleeding brows,
Whose tears from age to age are shed
O'er sainted sons untimely dead,
If e'er we charm a soul in pain,
Thine is the key-note of our strain.
How sweet with thee to lift the latch,
Where Faith has kept her midnight watch,
Smiling on woe:  with thee to kneel,
Where fixed, as if one prayer could heal,
She listens, till her pale eye glow
With joy, wild health can never know,
And each calm feature, ere we read,
Speaks, silently, thy glorious Creed.
Such have I seen:  and while they poured
Their hearts in every contrite word,
How have I rather longed to kneel
And ask of them sweet pardon's seal;
How blessed the heavenly music brought
By thee to aid my faltering thought!
"Peace" ere we kneel, and when we cease
To pray, the farewell word is, "Peace."
I came again:  the place was bright
"With something of celestial light" -
A simple Altar by the bed
For high Communion meetly spread,
Chalice, and plate, and snowy vest. -
We ate and drank:  then calmly blest,
All mourners, one with dying breath,
We sate and talked of Jesus' death.
Once more I came:  the silent room
Was veiled in sadly-soothing gloom,
And ready for her last abode
The pale form like a lily showed,
By Virgin fingers duly spread,
And prized for love of summer fled.
The light from those soft-smiling eyes
Had fleeted to its parent skies.
O soothe us, haunt us, night and day,
Ye gentle Spirits far away,
With whom we shared the cup of grace,
Then parted; ye to Christ's embrace,
We to this lonesome world again,
Yet mindful of th' unearthly strain
Practised with you at Eden's door,
To be sung on, where Angels soar,
With blended voices evermore.

The milk has the hidden butter,
And this is a known factor,
But only when it's churned,
Up floats the butter turned.
The mind has the God hidden,
Amidst all the thoughts ridden,
But only when it turns clean
His vision inside can be seen.
A pure mind is always pure,
Despite a noble one falls poor,
Like a conch shell burnt in fire,
Still it remains white forever.
A diamond is the diamond best,
Even if it lies in a heap of dust,
And so shines a lotus found
That grows in a muddy pond.
The pure gold is heated up well,
Hammered before it gets its pull,
And twisted into different shapes
Of ornaments kept in shops.
The ups and downs we face,
In our life long endless race,
Are the God's golden efforts
So our Souls live in comforts.
Face any trouble with a smile,
For you're sure in the next mile,
To step over diamond or gold,
To brighten up your life, behold.

I heard youth's silver clarion call to Fate,
And looking forth beheld his flower-fair face,
Framed in his shining helmet as he sat
Sheathed in white armour, full of fearless grace,
Watching the coming of a threat'ning cloud,
Hueless and shapeless, that with stealthy pace
Was creeping towards him. 'O dear youth, beware!'
But answer made he none save laugh'd aloud.
'Beware,' I cried, 'it hides some hideous snare.'
At it he made—and vanished in the shroud,
Whence there broke forth, O Christ! so sharp a cry
Of dire defeat and mortal agony,
That all my blood ran back in every vein;
And when th' accursed blackness roll'd away,
Prone in the dust my lovely warrior lay,
Defiled, not dead; sore wounded—shamed—not slain;
His shining armour smirched with many a stain,
Filthy and foul, ne'er to be bright again.

The look in your eyes, often tries
And succeeds in showing
you care
The old loved smile, familiar now
A hint of the thoughts we share
Twenty five years, a long time once
Now folded in the immediate past
Who would have thought,
on our wedding day
A quarter century would go so fast
The champagne flows, as it has
so often before
I touch wood and silently call
The fates to ensure
That they be kind and destiny mind
Where we go and how
This journey is not half-way yet
As we look back now
Let us celebrate, by all means
Out life together this while
But the best is yet to be
Say your eyes, your smile

I closed the door to my heart
threw the silver little key
into the great big rapied waves
of the pacific ocean
i went on my way out in
the world of unknown
never going to have the same heart again
He walked though the hot sand
leaveing foot prints for
the world to see swam out in the rapied waves of the ocean
to find the little silver key
to this day he is still seaching
for the little silver key
fighting to find it.

A man was crucified. He came to the city a stranger,
was accused, and nailed to a cross. He lingered hanging.
Laughed at the crowd. "The nails are iron," he
said, "You are cheap. In my country when we crucify
we use silver nails. . ." So he went jeering. They
did not understand him at first. Later they talked about
him in changed voices in the saloons, bowling alleys, and
churches. It came over them every man is crucified
only once in his life and the law of humanity dictates
silver nails be used for the job. A statue was erected
to him in a public square. Not having gathered his
name when he was among them, they wrote him as John
Silvernail on the statue.

Thus that contemplation
Led
To the discovery
Of the inner freedom
Of the nude body
Covered in screens
1/2/2010
Islamabad

Everywhere you go
and no matter what you do,
you will find a silver-tongued devil
who will talk you into parting
with your hard earnt cash.
They’ll promise you things
you have always thirsted for,
but only at a price
and once they have you hooked,
they will try and entice you more
at an additional cost
and so it goes on and on
until you are broke or get wise,
then the silver-tongued devil
just promptly disappears
before your eyes.
9 April 2011

They bade you softly,
They bade you so -
'Do not go, do not go, '
To the pale and silver moon's blue silk and blossom
They fail you softly
Their words -
They fail you so
- To the pale and silver moon's blue silk and blossom
And in the snow
Yes - in the snow
Where words do pale, but justice do
The silver moon's blue silk and blossom
You trusted through
You trusted through

The spider knits its silver web,
In hope to seize a falling star,
While all the while the moon does ebb,
Still gazing at it from afar.
For yet I think a stronger thread
Do you and I together weave,
How when apart, my spirit’s fled,
Half of my heart, I hate to leave.

I'm glad I have a sister
and happy you're the one
that fills my life with laughter,
happiness and fun.
I love the little secrets
and jokes that no one knows
except for us two funnies
Oh it makes me laugh!
Oh the fun we have together,
It makes my life all better.
You're there when I need a hug,
i feel snug as a bug in a rug!
All you do is smile
and it brightens up the room,
Whenever you're away,
I know you'll be home soon.
We talk of getting older
and going to the gym,
growing up, getting married
and of course we're having kids!
I'll be there when you need me,
and I hope you'll do the same,
ring me and I'll be there
as quickly as I can.
We laugh at all the memories,
we grin at all the names,
even though we change,
I hope our friendship stays the same.
I love our little chats
and dreams of our life,
and I know that one day
you'll make a great mother and wife!
We are two emotional sisters,
that we imagine  to be,
we even have our ups and downs but that comes naturally.
So even when we are apart,
you have a place inside my heart!
Sisters together forever at heart
Even when death do us part.

5 half-moons rising
on the hand that strokes my hair
bracelets like music
whispering softly in my ear
“Shhhshhh...therethere...shush... shush. . .there! ”

it is a story,
i always wanted to tell,
Once upon a time, i had a sister,
who is DEAD!
i missed her so much,
she missed me too,
well.... i thought like that,
and i wished why,
but i knew she would be happy,
in the glory of the heaven,
she will have everything she wants,
and would love to share me some,
she is super,
she is wonderful,
i see her in my dreams,
and always wondered what she will be thinking now,
it's a pleasure that she is safe,
with all the good things in there,
i wish i will see her for once,
just to take a good look at her,
and to say, 'always missed you,
and loved you'
looking at her bay pictures,
does not help,
it is true,
that i get bored without her,
but i only wanted a person like her,
to share my feeling,
if she is with me now,
we would be happy togerther,
just if you don't believe me, readers,
just ask my parents,
i miss her so much,
i love her very much,
it just hurt me more,
when thinking about her...............

My little sister is
always there when you need her.
My little sister is the
best little sister ever
and i would not trade her for anything.
My little sister has
a way of making everyone
laugh when they have a bad day.
My little sister is one of a kind
My little sister is annoying to,
but i still love her anyways.
My little sister
is also my best friend.
Dedicated to my sister Megan I Love you 4 ever

Memories shared -
Intense feelings of closeness -
Total honesy -
Warm morning sunlight through windows -
The miracle of life shared -
Unforgettable -
Emotions felt deep within my heart -
Friend for life -
Unconditional love -
My sister x
Saturday April 6th 2002

On this thy natal day permit a friend -
A brother - with thy joys his own to blend:
In all gladness he would wish to share
As willing in thy griefs a part to bear.
Meekly attend the ways of higher heav'n!
Is much deny'd? Yet much my dear is giv'n.
Thy health, thy reason unimpaired remain
And while as new fal'n snows thy spotless fame
The partner of thy life, attentive - kind -
And blending e'en the interests of the mind.
What bliss is thine when fore thy glistring eye
Thy lovely infant train pass jocund by!
The ruddy cheek, the smiling morning face
Denote a healthy undegenerate race:
In them renew'd, you'll live and live again,
And children's children's children lisp thy name.
Bright be the skies where'er my sister goes
Nor scowling tempests injure her repose -
The field of life with roses thick be strow'd
Nor one sharp thorn lie lurking in the road.
Thy ev'ry path be still a path of peace
And each revolving year thy joys increase;
Till hours and years of time itself be o'er
And one eternal day around thee pour.

Sister of mine, please know that I miss you,
As miles seperate us in life as we roam.
I close my eyes and we're still together…
Splashing in puddles as we skip toward home.
Picking wish-flowers and making mud-pies,
In fields of Summer, under apricot skies.
Oh it really does seem like yesterday,
And I'll always remember us this way.
Sister of mine, please know that I love you,
No distance on earth, could alter this truth.
Not a day passes, that I don't think of you,
And far-away playgrounds in dreams of youth.

I wish there were words I can say
what I feel from day to day
Nobody knows what I'd do
For abother moment with you
I remember your smile
it would keep me going an extra mile
I remember all the great time we shared
cause your the one who truly cared
You said you'd always be there
now your gone, its just not fair!
Why did you take your life
only memories are left to remember you by.
I would give anything to have you back
without you my life has been a wreck
I wish there was a way to fill this empty space
But no one could take your place!

There is a wise lady
Who inspires my life.
This sweet woman
Is my uncles wife.
She has always been there
Through thick and thin.
She has never let me down
Even when things were dim.
She holds the key
That goes to my heart.
No one else can get through,
The walls just wont part.
No one else will ever know
Exactly how I feel,
But this wonderful lady
Has shown me best friends are real.
She knows everything about me,
Both inside and out.
Whenever I need her,
I only need to shout.

I gaze over the horizon,
I know that Amber is beyond my sky,
Childhood is sadness and grief
Pounding at the little door
Of her heart.
Read Li-Young Lee
And know
There are many lovers
Separated by distant cities.

A second bathroom was built.
The roof had such a tilt.
That a dormer had to be made,
with a window and a shade.
I crept out that upstairs window
To see why the night sky was aglow.
Sat there on that steep rooftop.
So I could look out over the treetops.
Off in the distance to the north
The Mardi Gras celebration on July the 4th.
I don't remember going there.
But I do remember the rooftop stares.
Knees bent from the pitch of the roof.
My own little opera booth.
From there I would view the bright night sky.
Colored mushrooms I would spy.
Wagon wheels and a pinwheel or two.
Even a shooting star to name a few.
Funny how you saw them light the sky
and yet the sound was almost denied.
Maybe just soft waves of mumble
as if a storm was starting to rumble.
I kept going back year after year.
To that spot I held so dear.
To witness the bright night sky
celebrating Mardi Gras 4th of July.
Until I married and moved away
We happened to be visiting that day.
Thought I would revisit some youthful joy.
Made it out that window, still bit of a tomboy.
But to my saddened eye.
I could no longer spy.
The bright night sky at all.
The trees now had grow too tall.
(6 May 2007)

God's beautiful sky
you hold the earth in place
your friends surround your beautiful face
Your friends the clouds are your beard long
The birds fly through your white fluffy hair
and sing to you a song
You hold the heavens above
and the earth below
I can see you
wherever I go
Your friends the sun and moon
are your eyes and ears
the moon shines bright through the night
to sooth a child's fears
A tree starts as a seed
and grows up really high
but never get to touch their friend
the sky
Your friends the stars above
are your tokens of love
that sometimes shoot across your beautiful face
You can see them up in space
Look at the sky
Cause it is watching you
and when you see a rainbow
Your wishes will come true

Though there are miles between us,
Though the days and the nights may seem long,
Look up to the stars and know,
That no matter where you are,
I'm there with you,
No matter where you go,
My love you'll have.
If ever you are lonely,
Or think you don't belong,
Look up to the stars and know,
That i'll be there with you,
So you won't be lonely,
When you think that you don't belong,
I'll be around to make sure you do.
Whenever we're apart,
Always remember,
Look up to the stars.

Do you like the song?
I can't sing alone
Can you play guitar?
Can you see the star?
Bring me the real colour
Take me out the hole
Fly me in the sky
It's not always purple

Fishes parade
across the sky
all shapes
all sizes
thinly disguised
as clouds
or
as you name them
“Cloudses! ”
Here a big old fish
enormous tail...enormous fin.
Here a seahorse
pretty & perky
chomping at the bit.
There the tiniest tiniest
little wispy fishes alive.
The sea itself
a sparkle of diamonds…diamonds.
Your hand
held in mine
your mind
& how you see this world
filling up my mind
our... footsteps... following us...in the sand.

sunlight bathes in the sky,
morning cleans the stagnant
projections of the mind-
road twists,
bows beneath the pressure,
arches back and orgasms
a destination.
sunday paper arrives
two days late,
or am i just four days early-
dreamt last night i carried your child,
the birth came too early, you blamed me
for the miscarriage.
take my child away
i am unfit,
i am not worthy to
bear the pregnancy of
the future king-
a virgin knocked up,
who would believe?
i said it was a miracle,
you said it was just a dream.
i look at you,
scared little boy,
almost tall enough to pass as
a gentle man-
spinning around theidea
of our children in your head.
maybe we could move beside the ocean
and pay our tithing to the boiling fire-set
maybe we could live deep in the country,
a native country where no one
would know our names and
we'd learn to speak the language-
maybe we could love each other,
just barely enough to be more
than we are alone

The sky is pink
The grass is blue
Up is down
And so are you
To run is walk
When left is right
Hop is fly
And black is white
East is west
The sun is green
The walls above
The floor between
The rain goes up
The dirt comes down
Glad is sad
And smile is frown
To hear is speak
To see is smell
Down are clouds
And up are wells
When you are me
And I am you
Nobody knows
Just what to do

Sitting under the sunset sky
Laying around I wonder why
You value me so much more
Than any other you’ve met before
Why you feel so safe by me
And no the others that you see
Sitting under the sunset sky
I find comfort and I sigh
Knowing all is well by you
Having peace in all I do
Watching my troubles fall away
Not wanting then back any day
Sitting under the sunset sky
When you’re sad I want to cry
Feeling you’re sorrow, hurt and pain
When it’s done, all for gain
Drawing away from the past
What’s done is done and shouldn’t last
Sitting under the sunset sky
Only thing to do is deny
The comfort found when we’re alone
Feelings around us never shown
If only to live for how we feel
Soon this love would we seal
Sitting under the sunset sky
Longing for you by and by
Can’t get you off my mind
All the reasons trying to find
Thinking so hard never to know
Why you might care for me so
Sitting under the sunset sky
Hoping you won’t chose another guy
To be the one, to live the life
That good men live, without strife
To be with you is my goal
Are you the match for my soul?
Sitting under the sunset sky
To be with you when I die
Would be the best of any dream
Looking around, you see me beam
I’ve found the one out of all
Now it’s done, this task not small

Rising to the surface
of morning altitude
Often the awakening more
than just a little rude
Yet sometimes the moment's sweet
(and frequently not a little lewd) ...
Floating to billowy consciousness
this day, all soft and warm and nude
(Whoops, that last is not germane at
all, forgive me for a boob!)
Hugging pillow tightly to my
breast, the softness deep and  good...
Join me in smashing down the alarm
as we drift back to limbo's mood
Slip away to that nether region
of freefall slowed and vision skewed
Cuddle up to what you wish, my
love, as rough reality we elude...

Sweet, warm dark of night
pull me in and hold me tight.
Help me fight this awful scourge
of sleeplessness, and the urge
to give up, get out bed,
to live the life of one Dead.
My mind and mouth are disconnected
as is my soul, it seems infected
with some loopy, crazened curse
from which I cannot wrangle verse
of any meaning or consequence,
much less poetic 'brilliance'...
Sing-song, sing-song - that manic rhythm
drives my brain, my hand, my very innards.
In fact, this morning I awoke
with these first lines like a choke-
hold on my mind - after just four hours
of nothing like sleep, too weak to shower.
At least I rested, this much is true;
my eyes no more bear reddish hue.
Still, I'm not sure which foot is right
and which is wrong, if it's day or if it's night.
Did I just put the cat in the sink -
the dishes out the door, I think?
(But I don't own a cat, so how -?
No, I won't worry about that now...)
My life's a shambles, the house in ruins,
I cannot count from one to two!
Sweet relief, where have you gone? ...
Please hold me, Sleep, sing me a song,
a lullaby of soothing rhyme
to save me from committing crime.
(2.20.06)

Her happy world
A lovely mould
For a scream she gets her food
For another she gets all the good
Cute toys all around
She gets sleep abound
Sleeps as she loves
Screams as she likes!
World of love, world of joy
Till it becomes a broken toy
Let her sleep undisturbed
Lest on age can't be unperturbed!
She may not be spared
Of
Pleasure of love
Pain of its failure
Evil of dowry
Pangs of treachery
Spasm of sexism
Childhood marriage
Agony of miscarriage
Early widowhood
Cruelty of poverty
Vulturous eyes
Casting evil sight
At her long curly hair
And handsome features
Making her a helpless creature!
Let her sleep undisturbed
Amidst her toys duly clutched!
Before she blossoms
Let us hasten
A world order
That Respects women
Extols her virtues
Encourages equality
Ennobles the society!

On this my pensive pillow, gentle Sleep!
Descend, in all thy downy plumage drest:
Wipe with thy wing these eyes that wake to weep,
And place thy crown of poppies on my breast.
O steep my senses in oblivion's balm,
And sooth my throbbing pulse with lenient hand;
This tempest of my boiling blood becalm!
Despair grows mild at thy supreme command.
Yet ah! in vain, familiar with the gloom,
And sadly toiling through the tedious night,
I seek sweet slumber, while that virgin bloom,
For ever hovering, haunts my wretched sight.
Nor would the dawning day my sorrows charm:
Black midnight and the blaze of noon alike
To me appear, while with uplifted arm
Death stands prepar'd, but still delays, to strike.

Sleep oh blessed sleep,
the place where I can dream,
of all that I do need
my energy to keep.
Sleep oh blessed sleep,
The place of future hope,
in places far away,
and  love for me to keep
Sleep oh blessed sleep
Lull me with your content,
Keep me ever safe my
souls sanity to keep.
Sleep oh blessed sleep,
Let me emerge at morn,
With clearer thought and mind,
with no more need to weep

sleep
even  sleep
cannot  close
my  eyes
with  lies.

In the night there are of course the seven wonders
of the world and the greatness tragedy and enchantment.
Forests collide with legendary creatures hiding in thickets.
There is you.
In the night there are the walker's footsteps the murderer's
the town policeman's light from the street lamp and the ragman's lantern
There is you.
In the night trains go past and boats
and the fantasy of countries where it's daytime. The last breaths
of twilight and the first shivers of dawn.
There is you.
A piano tune, a shout.
A door slams. A clock.
And not only beings and things and physical sounds.
But also me chasing myself or endlessly going beyond me.
There is you the sacrifice, you that I'm waiting for.
Sometimes at the moment of sleep strange figures are born and disappear.
When I shut my eyes phosphorescent blooms appear and fade
and come to life again like fireworks made of flesh.
I pass through strange lands with creatures for company.
No doubt you are there, my beautiful discreet spy.
And the palpable soul of the vast reaches.
And perfumes of the sky and the stars the song of a rooster
from 2000 years ago and piercing screams in a flaming park and kisses.
Sinister handshakes in a sickly light and axles grinding on paralyzing roads.
No doubt there is you who I do not know, who on the contrary I do know.
But who, here in my dreams, demands to be felt without ever appearing.
You who remain out of reach in reality and in dream.
You who belong to me through my will to possess your illusion
but who brings your face near mine only if my eyes are closed in dream as well as
in reality.
You who in spite of an easy rhetoric where the waves die on the beach
where crows fly into ruined factories, where the wood rots
crackling under a lead sun.
You who are at the depths of my dreams stirring up a mind
full of metamorphoses leaving me your glove
when I kiss your hand.
In the night there are stars and the shadowy motion of the sea,
of rivers, forests, towns, grass and the lungs
of millions and millions of beings.
In the night there are the seven wonders of the world.
In the night there are no guardian angels, but there is sleep.
In the night there is you.
In the daylight too.

Ere on my bed my limbs I lay,
It hath not been my use to pray
With moving lips or bended knees ;
But silently, by slow degrees,
My spirit I to Love compose,
In humble trust mine eye-lids close,
With reverential resignation,
No wish conceived, no thought exprest,
Only a sense of supplication ;
A sense o'er all my soul imprest
That I am weak, yet not unblest,
Since in me, round me, every where
Eternal Strength and Wisdom are.
But yester-night I prayed aloud
In anguish and in agony,
Up-starting from the fiendish crowd
Of shapes and thoughts that tortured me :
A lurid light, a trampling throng,
Sense of intolerable wrong,
And whom I scorned, those only strong !
Thirst of revenge, the powerless will
Still baffled, and yet burning still !
Desire with loathing strangely mixed
On wild or hateful objects fixed.
Fantastic passions ! maddening brawl !
And shame and terror over all !
Deeds to be hid which were not hid,
Which all confused I could not know
Whether I suffered, or I did :
For all seemed guilt, remorse or woe,
My own or others still the same
Life-stifling fear, soul-stifling shame.
So two nights passed : the night's dismay
Saddened and stunned the coming day.
Sleep, the wide blessing, seemed to me
Distemper's worst calamity.
The third night, when my own loud scream
Had waked me from the fiendish dream,
O'ercome with sufferings strange and wild,
I wept as I had been a child ;
And having thus by tears subdued
My anguish to a milder mood,
Such punishments, I said, were due
To natures deepliest stained with sin,--
For aye entempesting anew
The unfathomable hell within,
The horror of their deeds to view,
To know and loathe, yet wish and do !
Such griefs with such men well agree,
But wherefore, wherefore fall on me ?
To be beloved is all I need,
And whom I love, I love indeed.

I know it must be winter (though I sleep) --
I know it must be winter, for I dream
I dip my bare feet in the running stream,
And flowers are many, and the grass grows deep.
I know I must be old (how age deceives!)
I know I must be old, for, all unseen,
My heart grows young, as autumn fields grow green,
When late rains patter on the falling sheaves.
I know I must be tired (and tired souls err) --
I know I must be tired, for all my soul
To deeds of daring beats a glad, faint roll,
As storms the riven pine to music stir.
I know I must be dying (Death draws near) --
I know I must be dying, for I crave
Life -- life, strong life, and think not of the grave,
And turf-bound silence, in the frosty year.

(few days back I saw  A big snake in my dreams, the same snake which was in this poem about to hurt me tomorrow..29/09/09..9am)
THE SNAKE
At the right
UNDER SHELF...silence   THERE IN  A BOX
ready TO BITE
..................................... ...............                         ................................................. ........
ME AND SHE WENT TO THERE
without key...
BUT FOR ME ALWAYS DARE
NEVER BEEN HYPOCRITE
every thing was clear,
every scene was bright
..one bird and a hen...............patients families,
another couple of snakes but smal were  there in the sight..
the small bird was smart, watching there from apart
for a call the other girl did she go
for a one as i guess was snake but little tall
on the desk 254 I did write, no drohan was at all
an error..then a line very light i drew
he was the one whom forced them to put a sign
but for me I refused as I used to..with no fight
............................................. ................................................. ...........................
WITH NO SOUND MY SCREEM..... HELP AND HELP
NO ONE HEARED AS IT SEEMS
KNOCKING WINDOWS... KNOCKING DOOR
WHILE THE SMALL FLOATING THERE ON THE FLOOR
NO ONE HELPED... NO ONE DARRRRRRRRRRRRE
THE BIG ONE STAYED  STILLLLLLLLLLLLLLL
SLOWLY  MOVING WANT TO KILLLLLLLLLL
HER STOMACH WANT TO FILLLLLLLLLLL
THEN THE HEN WAS SWALLOWED
my friend was the hen...............my friend was the bell.............
................................................. ......
ONE OF THE BIG CAME
HE WAS WATCHING KILLING GAME
the small one with no tail
while the remained colored pale
EVERY THING TURNED TO HELL
WITH MY SHOES I CRUSHED
MANAGER FACE WAS FLUSHED
The cute bird was smart, watching there from a part
NOW THE BIG READY TO BITE
BUT MY BEACH SHE CAN'T REACH
CAN'T REACH  THE MINd's HIGHT
as  for me always given anti dot
my dreams warning me, always right, always hot
NOW I'M READY FOR THE SHOT
not for me..but for  her..isthe   WHITE... colored black is her  DOT
DROHAN254....30/01/07
a dream about a true story..i was the small bird..my friend was the hen...the snakes were the one who made a trap for her, she was a victim, stabbed by many as she dared to say no......the same snakes tried many times to kill me but always my dreams warned me and made me ready for any shot................the dream is described exactly as it was.........................................still i have that pain my friend...

when you tire of snakes slithering beside your heals
become a medusa wear in your hair hissing snake fashions
beware snakes that bite seriously impair repeat dates
Copyright © Terence George Craddock

Snake stalking a frog
Strike! Frog jumps into a pond
Eagle had a feast.

Snake-charmer, play you the wooden 'been' instrument
In the forest deep and dark,
Playing the music of your rhyhtm
And sadhna.
You playing and playing and the music so haunting
That the cobras, grey, blackly and whitish
Start hissing around
After hearing the music of the East,
The music of Asia, I mean India.
But it pains me to see that catch you so tactfully
With the bamboo basket to put into
And making it smell a root
So that the anger can lessen a bit
And earn they the Bombaywallahs, the Bombayan film-makers
Falsely imitating the snake-charmer's music
And giving not anything else to them.
Your risk, none can take to, your playing with the kaal,
The doom
As a bite can be so fatal,
But they collecting your money bundles
And you poorer and poorer,
What you had been in the past!

Snake-fire
is here
With wicked
Men and women
And as ill luck
Would have it
I am going
With them.
Towards mirage
See, I am going
As a prisoner
Of my desire
And passion being
Blind and ignorant.

I saw a young snake glide
Out of the mottled shade
And hang, limp on a stone:
A thin mouth, and a tongue
Stayed, in the still air.
It turned; it drew away;
Its shadow bent in half;
It quickened and was gone
I felt my slow blood warm.
I longed to be that thing.
The pure, sensuous form.
And I may be, some time.

Poison at the mouth and at the end of
A snake:
Other ways on and out of a canyon that our
Teachers made us pretend to be
Real:
We will start off slow tomorrow:
Some birds will build their nests underneath
Their arrow planes—
Some bicycles will be stolen, and some lions will
Yawn when the housewives
Return home before their children in the busy boughten
Estuaries they become estranged in:
Outback of which the canoes will float just
As coffins:
And into the flickering dance of candles
Into which their children will come home estranged in,
Hapless and dancing:
So far from the groves of the poorer and working class
Children:
Where my muse lives—lighted up like a roman
Candle dancing beneath the catholic church
Until she is a single blue window too far away to see—
And my words have drifted away—she never has to
Worry about me—
When she awakens—what will she remember—
How will she dress herself—and when she hears the airplanes,
What will she hear, until she finally
Hears my wife returning home to me—and then, it wonders,
How will she ever go about returning home
To him.

The snake charmer of India
Playing the wooden been instrument
And the cobras swaying, dancing.

Green Snake, when I hung you round my neck
and stroked your cold, pulsing throat
as you hissed to me, glinting
arrowy gold scales, and I felt
the weight of you on my shoulders,
and the whispering silver of your dryness
sounded close at my ears --
Green Snake--I swore to my companions that certainly
you were harmless! But truly
I had no certainty, and no hope, only desiring
to hold you, for that joy,
which left
a long wake of pleasure, as the leaves moved
and you faded into the pattern
of grass and shadows, and I returned
smiling and haunted, to a dark morning.

I can see a soldier's mother
Knitting quietly in the lamplight,
Her precious thoughts are for another
Who has been sent away to fight.
She is remembering a tousled haired boy
Running through the house to play.
She is remembering the heartfelt joy
Of washing and nurturing him each day.
She gloried in his every little achievement
For he was her flesh and blood.
It was only temporary bereavement
When he would come in covered with mud.
Sometimes he rode a stick horse
All over a vast front yard range.
He was rounding up cattle of course
Every detail he took care to arrange.
Somtimes he rode till it was night
Searching this range for his cattle.
He was never far from his mother's sight
For she loved watching him ride high in the saddle.
These were the magnificent glory years
Of a tousled haired boy and his mother.
As she knitted she saw through her tears
A mighty little cowboy unlike any other.
Now he has gone down to the battle
To fight for his country and his home.
But he has not forgotten the front yard cattle
And the mighty range he used to roam.
With the bursting of every bomb and shell
He remembers those who loved him so.
He remembers his mother's supper yell
And her precious face that would always glow.
She was a broken hearted mother
When this cowboy soldier never made it home.
She thought her heart would smother
As she knelt in prayer on the range he used to roam.
There wasn't any fine oration
There wasn't any beautiful song.
This boy had met his obligation
And he stood above the throng.
Today I believe this cowboy is exploring
The range in his new home.
I believe our precious Lord is adoring
A cowboy who has a brand new range to roam.

Daymare demons spiral your head.
There is no rest in your soft bed.
Images of death reveal.
The guilt you hide, but feel.
A war of shadows.
Where you once fought.
In back gardens where children play
For only peace you wished and sought.
The grass green hills of your childhood remain.
But there, there was no death sign
Wife and kids you greet at garden gate.
They don’t see your inner hate.
They don’t see your embroiled conscience,
or know the infliction you bare.
They’re only too happy to have you home.
Home to love and share.
You are a soldier home.
A soldier home from a war,
Trying your guilt to hide.
Trying to forget the child you shot, that died.
The war was someone else’s.
Why should you really care?
It only really strikes home,
when you see a child dying there.
Visions cloud your mind of voices in despair.
Why did we have to die so young?
Why did our mother’s have to mourn?
Soldier from another land, please tell us why?
The soldier’s forehead frowns.
The answer he can not give.
He was only sent there.
So other have a chance to live.
Now his war is over.
Over his home he now resides.
But the voices of despair.
Still ring in his head.
He cries to himself in silence.
How can his conscience bare.
The purgatory it must go through.
Knowing he killed a child fair.
18 July 1978

Dear, Soldier Boy,
How I miss you so.
I think about you everyday,
And when you're coming home.
Dear, Soldier Boy,
I hope you write back soon.
Tomorrow's Sarah's birthday.
Her party starts at noon.
Dear, Soldier Boy,
I love you more each day.
My love for you grows stronger,
The longer you're away.
Dear, Soldier Boy,
I haven't heard from you at all.
Maybe I will get a letter,
By the time of Fall.
Dear, Soldier Boy,
June 15,2008.
They told me you were wounded,
And they got you help too late.
Dear, Soldier Boy,
How I miss you so.
I think about you everyday,
And why you didn't come back home

I am a soldier.
Just a soldier, and don’t ask me
What’s the sense
In living.
I’ve never come to know it
For myself.
I am a soldier,
Just a soldier on my path
Of war and killing.
Beyond forgiving
And beyond
Contempt.
Carte blanche
As long as Fate commands;
No strings attached
And no amenability.
A puppet with a knife.
Not knowing is so sweet.
What vility.

Soldier Freddy
was never ready,
But! Soldier Neddy,
unlike Freddy
Was always ready
and steady,
That's why,
When Soldier Neddy
Is-outside-Buckingham-Palace-on-guard-in -the-pouring-wind-and-rain-being-steady-and-ready ,
Freddy
is home in beddy.

I love you, great new Titan!
Am I not you?
Napoleon or Caesar
Out of you grew.
Out of the unthinkable torture,
Eyes kissed by death,
Won back to the world again,
Lost and won in a breath,
Cruel men are made immortal,
Out of your pain born.
They have stolen the sun’s power
With their feet on your shoulders worn.
Let them shrink from your girth,
That has outgrown the pallid days,
When you slept like Circe’s swine,
Or a word in the brain’s way.

Fallen Soldier All Alone
Fallen Soldier Far From Home.
Trickling Down His Face A Tear,
Forgetting How It Feels To Fear
Death And All It's Fate And Glory.
Now It's Here, No Need To Worry.
Fallen Soldier All Alone
Fallen Soldier Far From Home
He's One Of Those They'll All Forget;
The Life He Lived, The Goals He Set,
The Ones He Loved, The Ones Who Wait
To See His Nearly Forgotten Face.
Fallen Soldier All Alone
Fallen Soldier Far From Home
Now Breathing's Just A Waste Of Breath
And Living's Just A Waste Of Death
As He Searches For A New Address;
A Brand New Home Free Of Loneliness.
Fallen Soldier All Alone
Fallen Soldier Far From Home
Lying Motionless On The Ground,
The Battle Raging All Around.
For Now He Is Not All Alone.
This Fallen Soldier Is Welcomed Home.

As the silence fell,  the birds began to sing
The soldier tries to stand on his own
As the blood trickles down his arm he looks and he see's
As he stands,  he finds he's all alone
His friends are all about him at his feet
The enemy has perished from the seige
From the field of battle he searches the fields and trees
With a sigh of relief he drops down to one knee
With one good hand he fumbles his radio
Must get command on line, must let them know
He hears a voice on line that says Bravo twenty three
Report your twenty and status would you please
The soldier leans his back against a tree
And streaches out before him his tired feet
He says, Sir, the positions held, it is ours to keep
Defended now by one beneath this tree
The voice it says that help is on the way
The soldier hesitates,  as a breath he takes
Across his legs he lays his rifle down
Chambers a round, then comes back to say
Sir, I see a dozen men they come
I'll try to hold this ground but I'm just one
I'll try to hold them back, but I don't think I may
When you come Sir, Please, pray my soul to take
When the help it came they found beneath the tree
The young man in his twentys no longer breathed
And out before him scattered on the ground
Were a  dozen men,  dead enemy were found
The Captain he walks up to the tree
The soldier's hand was warm he finds heartbeat
He said men if you can, you must try to save this man
And they did, for this soldier he was me.

When the 'arf-made recruity goes out to the East
'E acts like a babe an' 'e drinks like a beast,
An' 'e wonders because 'e is frequent deceased
Ere 'e's fit for to serve as a soldier.
Serve, serve, serve as a soldier,
Serve, serve, serve as a soldier,
Serve, serve, serve as a soldier,
So-oldier ~OF~ the Queen!
Now all you recruities what's drafted to-day,
You shut up your rag-box an' 'ark to my lay,
An' I'll sing you a soldier as far as I may:
A soldier what's fit for a soldier.
Fit, fit, fit for a soldier . . .
First mind you steer clear o' the grog-sellers' huts,
For they sell you Fixed Bay'nets that rots out your guts --
Ay, drink that 'ud eat the live steel from your butts --
An' it's bad for the young British soldier.
Bad, bad, bad for the soldier . . .
When the cholera comes -- as it will past a doubt --
Keep out of the wet and don't go on the shout,
For the sickness gets in as the liquor dies out,
An' it crumples the young British soldier.
Crum-, crum-, crumples the soldier . . .
But the worst o' your foes is the sun over'ead:
You ~must~ wear your 'elmet for all that is said:
If 'e finds you uncovered 'e'll knock you down dead,
An' you'll die like a fool of a soldier.
Fool, fool, fool of a soldier . . .
If you're cast for fatigue by a sergeant unkind,
Don't grouse like a woman nor crack on nor blind;
Be handy and civil, and then you will find
That it's beer for the young British soldier.
Beer, beer, beer for the soldier . . .
Now, if you must marry, take care she is old --
A troop-sergeant's widow's the nicest I'm told,
For beauty won't help if your rations is cold,
Nor love ain't enough for a soldier.
'Nough, 'nough, 'nough for a soldier . . .
If the wife should go wrong with a comrade, be loath
To shoot when you catch 'em -- you'll swing, on my oath! --
Make 'im take 'er and keep 'er:  that's Hell for them both,
An' you're shut o' the curse of a soldier.
Curse, curse, curse of a soldier . . .
When first under fire an' you're wishful to duck,
Don't look nor take 'eed at the man that is struck,
Be thankful you're livin', and trust to your luck
And march to your front like a soldier.
Front, front, front like a soldier . . .
When 'arf of your bullets fly wide in the ditch,
Don't call your Martini a cross-eyed old bitch;
She's human as you are -- you treat her as sich,
An' she'll fight for the young British soldier.
Fight, fight, fight for the soldier . . .
When shakin' their bustles like ladies so fine,
The guns o' the enemy wheel into line,
Shoot low at the limbers an' don't mind the shine,
For noise never startles the soldier.
Start-, start-, startles the soldier . . .
If your officer's dead and the sergeants look white,
Remember it's ruin to run from a fight:
So take open order, lie down, and sit tight,
And wait for supports like a soldier.
Wait, wait, wait like a soldier . . .
When you're wounded and left on Afghanistan's plains,
And the women come out to cut up what remains,
Jest roll to your rifle and blow out your brains
An' go to your Gawd like a soldier.
Go, go, go like a soldier,
Go, go, go like a soldier,
Go, go, go like a soldier,
So-oldier ~of~ the Queen!

Sometimes i cry,
because i am on my own
The tears I cry R bitter and warm
they flow with life but take no form
I cry because my heart is torn,
and i find it difficult 2 carry on
I had an ear 2 confide in,
I would cry among my treasured friends
but who do you know that stops that long to help another carry on
the world moves fast and it would rather pass you by than 2 stop and C what makes you cry
It's painful and sad sometimes i cry and no one cares about why

183
I've heard an Organ talk, sometimes
In a Cathedral Aisle,
And understood no word it said—
Yet held my breath, the while—
And risen up—and gone away,
A more Berdardine Girl—
Yet—know not what was done to me
In that old Chapel Aisle.

Sometimes I can walk away,
Turn the other cheek and
Find joy in the lilies of
Life's wide field-
But in the passage of Time
The pace of growing Seasons,
reality sows hardness
Like looming mountains-
Granite weight builds upon
My sinking shoulders,
And what is a gift is set aside
As burden-
Suddenly, halting by faith's pull,
Reaching for the altar within,
And placing my small offering
Upon prayer's perfect shield-
The bandages fall and reveal
New Light from the east,
Bursting in priceless gold.
And slanting my Self to Him-
The Bread melts into my
Soul, as pure substance-
Filling the need to be,
more, more than just Human-
jThe water beckons clear, 'drink'
And taking the tiny paper cup
To my thirsting lips He enters,
Giving me the Forgiveness meal.

Sometimes I just sit and ponder,
what the true meaning of lifes all about;
Try and figure out my insucurites,
and the reason Im so full of doubt,
Maybe Im too hard on myself,
with the pressure I apply from within;
Maybe I want too much to fast,
here comes doubt creeping in again.
How can I find a balance in life,
where I float with an even keal?
Not worring about the future,
or losing for life its zeal?

Sometimes I wonder,
Will I come through?
Can I make it to the other side?
And also, will you?
As I walk through the rain,
I can count on a few,
And when sometimes they leave me,
I wonder, should I pursue?
God didn’t promise,
As I walk through this life,
Skies without clouds,
Or storm without quiet.
Maybe someday, I’ll understand,
When I’m coming up to
The end of this land.
The day is approaching,
I know the time is near,
When the end of all things
Will end all things here.
Asking myself this,
What still will be left?
Can all this nothingness,
And this worldly mindset,
Be pleasing to the one,
Who made the sun rise and set?
Why do they taunt?
And say, “You are wrong”?
When my king is coming and theirs
Lies underground.
Mine conquered death,
Theirs only died,
Mine lives again
Theirs, death has tied.
My silent prayer,
Comes from the heart,
Lord save these people,
And can I be a part?
Be a part of your plan,
To change many hearts,
For the kingdom that lasts,
Has neither end nor start.
And as you also
Walk through the storm,
Remember what it’s about,
Who you are living for.
Not for this world,
Nor mans empty gain,
You are living for him,
Who restored your soul again.

Sometimes the fairies run out from the stories. Recently I’ve met one at a bar counter shivering in front of a tonic gin. You come close to her and whisper in her ears:
“This happened to me too.”

Sometimes saying I'm sorry means more then I love you.
Sometimes holding hands means more then making love with you.
Sometimes its hard when loves so strong a cord.
Sometimes its easy to forget,
Sometimes its easy to desire to be adored.
Sometimes we overlook the weaknesses that we have.
Sometimes it makes us happy,
Sometimes it makes us sad.
Sometimes we remember that it is OK to mad.
Sometimes we reflect and are just glad to have a path.
Sometimes we drift,
Sometimes we fall.
Sometimes we heal.
Sometimes we loose it all.
Sometimes it doesn't matter.
Sometimes everything's OK.
Sometimes is like what ever,
Sometimes we just need to say get
away.
Sometimes I will linger and you will do the same.
And yet as always,
Sometimes we wake up and its a brand new day.

Sometimes I feel alive
sometimes I feel dead
sometimes my heart hurts
sometimes it's all in my head
Sometimes I feel lonely
sometimes I need my space
sometimes there are no problems
sometimes I've got too much to face
Sometimes things go right
sometimes things go wrong
sometimes I fit right in
sometimes I just don't belong
Sometimes I want to laugh
sometimes I want to cry
sometimes I want to live
sometimes I want to die
Sometimes I want to face life
sometimes I want to be gone from sight
sometimes I want to run
sometimes I want to fight
Sometimes I want to sing
sometimes I want to shout
sometimes I know the asnwer
sometimes I'm in doubt
Sometimes I'm happy
sometimes I'm sad
sometimes I'm scared
sometimes I'm mad
Sometimes I want to win
sometimes I want to lose
sometimes I listen to music
sometimes I watch the news
Sometimes I make decisions
sometimes I'm told what to do
sometimes I find life hard
sometimes so do you.....

Sometimes when I'm dreaming..........
My world is bright and clear -
I know my heart,
I know my part,
No hesitance or fear;
Sometimes when I'm dreaming..........
I wander through the night -
To distant lands,
I grasp the hands
Of poverty and plight;
Sometimes when I'm dreaming..........
I have the power to cure -
The weak of heart,
Lives torn apart,
My faith is strong and pure;
Sometimes when I'm dreaming..........
The answers come to light -
Which path to take,
Which choice to make,
No question which is right;
Sometimes when I'm dreaming..........
I feel you standing near -
You calm my storm,
Your heart is warm,
Your love for me is clear;
Sometimes when I'm dreaming..........
I just enjoy the view -
I'm in my space,
My perfect place,
That's when I dream of you.

Though I only had you for a month, that time though short,
will remain in my heart, and mind for a lifetime.
You were so young, sweet, adorable.
You smiled, even up until the end.
I held you in my arms as you took your last breath,
tears rolling down my cheeks, and falling upon your tiny little body.
If only I could have done more than just holding you, and stroking your cheek,
and telling you we would meet again someday far into the future.
Mortality, what a cruel gift which can be taken away in the blink of an eye.

XLV
Care-charmer Sleep, son of the sable Night,
Brother to Death, in silent darkness born:
Relieve my languish, and restore the light,
With dark forgetting of my cares, return;
And let the day be time enough to mourn
The shipwreck of my ill-adventur'd youth:
Let waking eyes suffice to wail their scorn,
Without the torment of the night's untruth.
Cease dreams, th' imagery of our day-desires,
To model forth the passions of the morrow;
Never let rising sun approve you liars,
To add more grief to aggravate my sorrow.
Still let me sleep, embracing clouds in vain;
And never wake to feel the day's disdain.

On the night you said goodbye
I told God, I want you to die
because my heart ached
For your pain was real
and I knew your suffering
would never heal
So I  laid in bed that night
As God had called you towards his light
All of my thoughts were now known
and the sound of the phone
rang out in our home
I ran out of my room and screamed
I knew what happened
that it wasn’t a dream
I watched as a grown man cried
for he knew also that his wife had died
My brother soon joined in
And he screamed as I just did
The person that brought us here
Was gone
and this was clear
All I knew was because of you
you gave us love as we both grew
you spent your life teaching us right
and we thank you mom for your tremendous fight
You did not want to go
You wanted to stay
and watch us grow
but your chosen time had come
We lost a mother
and cancer had won
I remember so well the last time I saw you
it was after school with my two friends who you knew
We brought you balloons and a little hippo
and you smiled and said hello
But your eyes and face did not look as they did
and your voice quivered
as your body shivered...
I stood at your bed with my face to the ground
and held your hand softly
without making a sound
how could I have known -  what lied ahead
for all I knew -  you were sick in bed
I was young and thought you would be fine
I wish I knew this would be our last time
Many years have passed by
Since you have gone - mom
But I know you will always be with me
And I shall never walk alone
On the night you said goodbye
God took your soul up high
away from us down here
to a place where there is no fear
but one day we will meet again
where the night and day never end
where people don't pass away
and words like goodbye…
We will never have to say….

My son has belled the CAT,
But he wants to study at Rotterdam.
I quizzed why you want to go away
, When you have got into top MBA programme,
Right here so near home.
Please don’t leave us alone.
He said, ' Mom the global exposure
I will get there won’t be possible in Indore.
I will be studying with an international community,
With Nobel laureates on the faculty.
It will give an enriching experience.'
But son we will be poorer by several lakhs.
He looked at me with concern in his eyes,
And said I don’t want to stress you guys.
Maybe then I should study here,
I felt happy just to hear,
That he was willing to compromise
On his long cherished dreams.
I patted his back and said to him,
Go out into the world and spread your wings.
But always remember,
Your roots are here.
Come back home after you have broadened
Your horizons.
Right now India is a happening place,
And I hear is attracting lots of expats.
It will be a good idea
To explore your options here.
Set up your own enterprise,
This is my parting advice.
Come back and make your country proud
Just don’t end being a part of the crowd.
CAT is an entrance exam for top buisness scools in India

You never heard tell of the story?
Well, now, I can hardly believe!
Never heard of the honour and glory
Of Pardon, the son of Reprieve?
But maybe you're only a Johnnie
And don't know a horse from a hoe?
Well, well, don't get angry, my sonny,
But, really, a young un should know.
They bred him out back on the "Never",
His mother was Mameluke breed.
To the front -- and then stay there - was ever
The root of the Mameluke creed.
He seemed to inherit their wiry
Strong frames -- and their pluck to receive --
As hard as a flint and as fiery
Was Pardon, the son of Reprieve.
We ran him at many a meeting
At crossing and gully and town,
And nothing could give him a beating --
At least when our money was down.
For weight wouldn't stop him, nor distance,
Nor odds, though the others were fast;
He'd race with a dogged persistence,
And wear them all down at the last.
At the Turon the Yattendon filly
Led by lengths at the mile-and-a-half,
And we all began to look silly,
While her crowd were starting to laugh;
But the old horse came faster and faster,
His pluck told its tale, and his strength,
He gained on her, caught her, and passed her,
And won it, hands down, by a length.
And then we swooped down on Menindie
To run for the President's Cup;
Oh! that's a sweet township -- a shindy
To them is board, lodging, and sup.
Eye-openers they are, and their system
Is never to suffer defeat;
It's "win, tie, or wrangle" -- to best 'em
You must lose 'em, or else it's "dead heat".
We strolled down the township and found 'em
At drinking and gaming and play;
If sorrows they had, why they drowned 'em,
And betting was soon under way.
Their horses were good uns and fit uns,
There was plenty of cash in the town;
They backed their own horses like Britons,
And, Lord! how we rattled it down!
With gladness we thought of the morrow,
We counted our wages with glee,
A simile homely to borrow --
"There was plenty of milk in our tea."
You see we were green; and we never
Had even a thought of foul play,
Though we well might have known that the clever
Division would "put us away".
Experience docet, they tell us,
At least so I've frequently heard;
But, "dosing" or "stuffing", those fellows
Were up to each move on the board:
They got to his stall -- it is sinful
To think what such villains will do --
And they gave him a regular skinful
Of barley -- green barley -- to chew.
He munched it all night, and we found him
Next morning as full as a hog --
The girths wouldn't nearly meet round him;
He looked like an overfed frog.
We saw we were done like a dinner --
The odds were a thousand to one
Against Pardon turning up winner,
'Twas cruel to ask him to run.
We got to the course with our troubles,
A crestfallen couple were we;
And we heard the " books" calling the doubles --
A roar like the surf of the sea.
And over the tumult and louder
Rang "Any price Pardon, I lay!"
Says Jimmy, "The children of Judah
Are out on the warpath today."
Three miles in three heats: -- Ah, my sonny,
The horses in those days were stout,
They had to run well to win money;
I don't see such horses about.
Your six-furlong vermin that scamper
Half-a-mile with their feather-weight up,
They wouldn't earn much of their damper
In a race like the President's Cup.
The first heat was soon set a-going;
The Dancer went off to the front;
The Don on his quarters was showing,
With Pardon right out of the hunt.
He rolled and he weltered and wallowed --
You'd kick your hat faster, I'll bet;
They finished all bunched, and he followed
All lathered and dripping with sweat.
But troubles came thicker upon us,
For while we were rubbing him dry
The stewards came over to warn us:
"We hear you are running a bye!
If Pardon don't spiel like tarnation
And win the next heat -- if he can --
He'll earn a disqualification;
Just think over that now, my man!"
Our money all gone and our credit,
Our horse couldn't gallop a yard;
And then people thought that we did it
It really was terribly hard.
We were objects of mirth and derision
To folks in the lawn and the stand,
Anf the yells of the clever division
Of "Any price Pardon!" were grand.
We still had a chance for the money,
Two heats remained to be run:
If both fell to us -- why, my sonny,
The clever division were done.
And Pardon was better, we reckoned,
His sickness was passing away,
So we went to the post for the second
And principal heat of the day.
They're off and away with a rattle,
Like dogs from the leashes let slip,
And right at the back of the battle
He followed them under the whip.
They gained ten good lengths on him quickly
He dropped right away from the pack;
I tell you it made me feel sickly
To see the blue jacket fall back.
Our very last hope had departed --
We thought the old fellow was done,
When all of a sudden he started
To go like a shot from a gun.
His chances seemed slight to embolden
Our hearts; but, with teeth firmly set,
We thought, "Now or never! The old un
May reckon with some of 'em yet."
Then loud rose the war-cry for Pardon;
He swept like the wind down the dip,
And over the rise by the garden
The jockey was done with the whip.
The field was at sixes and sevens --
The pace at the first had been fast --
And hope seemed to drop from the heavens,
For Pardon was coming at last.
And how he did come! It was splendid;
He gained on them yards every bound,
Stretching out like a greyhound extended,
His girth laid right down on the ground.
A shimmer of silk in the cedars
As into the running they wheeled,
And out flashed the whips on the leaders,
For Pardon had collared the field.
Then right through the ruck he was sailing --
I knew that the battle was won --
The son of Haphazard was failing,
The Yattendon filly was done;
He cut down The Don and The Dancer,
He raced clean away from the mare --
He's in front! Catch him now if you can, sir!
And up went my hat in the air!
Then loud fron the lawn and the garden
Rose offers of "Ten to one on!"
"Who'll bet on the field? I back Pardon!"
No use; all the money was gone.
He came for the third heat light-hearted,
A-jumping and dancing about;
The others were done ere they started
Crestfallen, and tired, and worn out.
He won it, and ran it much faster
Than even the first, I believe;
Oh, he was the daddy, the master,
Was Pardon, the son of Reprieve.
He showed 'em the method of travel --
The boy sat still as a stone --
They never could see him for gravel;
He came in hard-held, and alone.
* * * * * * *
But he's old -- and his eyes are grown hollow
Like me, with my thatch of the snow;
When he dies, then I hope I may follow,
And go where the racehorses go.
I don't want no harping nor singing --
Such things with my style don't agree;
Where the hoofs of the horses are ringing
There's music sufficient for me.
And surely the thoroughbred horses
Will rise up again and begin
Fresh faces on far-away courses,
And p'raps they might let me slip in.
It would look rather well the race-card on
'Mongst Cherubs and Seraphs and things,
"Angel Harrison's black gelding Pardon,
Blue halo, white body and wings."
And if they have racing hereafter,
(And who is to say they will not?)
When the cheers and the shouting and laughter
Proclaim that the battle grows hot;
As they come down the racecourse a-steering,
He'll rush to the front, I believe;
And you'll hear the great multitude cheering
For Pardon, the son of Reprieve

Son, son oh my dear son, dear son,
What are you doing now there?
Are you busy in reading or writing?
Or are you busy in reciting poems?
This is wonder that technology tells,
Within fraction of second it connects,
Wherever you may be in far place,
I know you receive call of affection.
Go on writing your philosophical views,
You see life from deep within in truth,
Writing is perseverance, reading is too,
Observe sea and sky and forest carefully.
You go to seashore and see waves there,
Are you there near sea? Are you singing?
You are pure soul; God is like vast ocean,
Dear son, you connect him in lovely wave.
© Kumarmani Mahakul,10 July,2017. All rights reserved.

COUNT.
I KNOW a flower of beauty rare,
Ah, how I hold it dear!
To seek it I would fain repair,
Were I not prison'd here.
My sorrow sore oppresses me,
For when I was at liberty,
I had it close beside me.
Though from this castle's walls so steep
I cast mine eyes around,
And gaze oft from the lofty keep,
The flower can not be found.
Whoe'er would bring it to my sight,
Whether a vassal he, or knight,
My dearest friend I'd deem him.
THE ROSE.
I blossom fair,--thy tale of woes
I hear from 'neath thy grate.
Thou doubtless meanest me, the rose.
Poor knight of high estate!
Thou hast in truth a lofty mind;
The queen of flowers is then enshrin'd,
I doubt not, in thy bosom.
COUNT.
Thy red, in dress of green array'd,
As worth all praise I hold;
And so thou'rt treasured by each maid
Like precious stones or gold.
Thy wreath adorns the fairest face
But still thou'rt not the flower whose grace
I honour here in silence.
THE LILY.
The rose is wont with pride to swell,
And ever seeks to rise;
But gentle sweethearts love full well
The lily's charms to prize,
The heart that fills a bosom true,
That is, like me, unsullied too,
My merit values duly.
COUNT.
In truth, I hope myself unstain'd,
And free from grievous crime;
Yet I am here a prisoner chain'd,
And pass in grief my time,
To me thou art an image sure
Of many a maiden, mild and pure,
And yet I know a dearer.
THE PINK.
That must be me, the pink, who scent
The warder's garden here;
Or wherefore is he so intent
My charms with care to rear?
My petals stand in beauteous ring,
Sweet incense all around I fling,
And boast a thousand colours.
COUNT.
The pink in truth we should not slight,
It is the gardener's pride
It now must stand exposed to light,
Now in the shade abide.
Yet what can make the Count's heart glow
Is no mere pomp of outward show;
It is a silent flower.
THE VIOLET.
Here stand I, modestly half hid,
And fain would silence keep;
Yet since to speak I now am bid,
I'll break my silence deep.
If, worthy Knight, I am that flower,
It grieves me that I have not power
To breathe forth all my sweetness.
COUNT.
The violet's charms I prize indeed,
So modest 'tis, and fair,
And smells so sweet; yet more I need
To ease my heavy care.
The truth I'll whisper in thine ear:
Upon these rocky heights so drear,
I cannot find the loved one.
The truest maiden 'neath the sky
Roams near the stream below,
And breathes forth many a gentle sigh,
Till I from hence can go.
And when she plucks a flow'ret blue,
And says "Forget-me-not!"--I, too,
Though far away, can feel it.
Ay, distance only swells love's might,
When fondly love a pair;
Though prison'd in the dungeon's night,
In life I linger there
And when my heart is breaking nigh,
"Forget-me-not!" is all I cry,
And straightway life returneth.

This is the song of the parson's son, as he squats in his shack alone,
On the wild, weird nights, when the Northern Lights shoot up from the frozen zone,
And it's sixty below, and couched in the snow the hungry huskies moan:
"I'm one of the Arctic brotherhood, I'm an old-time pioneer.
I came with the first -- O God! how I've cursed this Yukon -- but still I'm here.
I've sweated athirst in its summer heat, I've frozen and starved in its cold;
I've followed my dreams by its thousand streams, I've toiled and moiled for its gold.
"Look at my eyes -- been snow-blind twice; look where my foot's half gone;
And that gruesome scar on my left cheek, where the frost-fiend bit to the bone.
Each one a brand of this devil's land, where I've played and I've lost the game,
A broken wreck with a craze for `hooch', and never a cent to my name.
"This mining is only a gamble; the worst is as good as the best;
I was in with the bunch and I might have come out right on top with the rest;
With Cormack, Ladue and Macdonald -- O God! but it's hell to think
Of the thousands and thousands I've squandered on cards and women and drink.
"In the early days we were just a few, and we hunted and fished around,
Nor dreamt by our lonely camp-fires of the wealth that lay under the ground.
We traded in skins and whiskey, and I've often slept under the shade
Of that lone birch tree on Bonanza, where the first big find was made.
"We were just like a great big family, and every man had his squaw,
And we lived such a wild, free, fearless life beyond the pale of the law;
Till sudden there came a whisper, and it maddened us every man,
And I got in on Bonanza before the big rush began.
"Oh, those Dawson days, and the sin and the blaze, and the town all open wide!
(If God made me in His likeness, sure He let the devil inside.)
But we all were mad, both the good and the bad, and as for the women, well --
No spot on the map in so short a space has hustled more souls to hell.
"Money was just like dirt there, easy to get and to spend.
I was all caked in on a dance-hall jade, but she shook me in the end.
It put me queer, and for near a year I never drew sober breath,
Till I found myself in the bughouse ward with a claim staked out on death.
"Twenty years in the Yukon, struggling along its creeks;
Roaming its giant valleys, scaling its god-like peaks;
Bathed in its fiery sunsets, fighting its fiendish cold --
Twenty years in the Yukon . . . twenty years -- and I'm old.
"Old and weak, but no matter, there's `hooch' in the bottle still.
I'll hitch up the dogs to-morrow, and mush down the trail to Bill.
It's so long dark, and I'm lonesome -- I'll just lay down on the bed;
To-morrow I'll go . . . to-morrow . . . I guess I'll play on the red.
". . . Come, Kit, your pony is saddled. I'm waiting, dear, in the court . . .
. . . Minnie, you devil, I'll kill you if you skip with that flossy sport . . .
. . . How much does it go to the pan, Bill? . . . play up, School, and play the game . . .
. . . Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be Thy name . . ."
This was the song of the parson's son, as he lay in his bunk alone,
Ere the fire went out and the cold crept in, and his blue lips ceased to moan,
And the hunger-maddened malamutes had torn him flesh from bone.

Time of the Son is close
It has always been close!
No one can stop the tide
Do you get what I say?
But, does it make it silly
Making the noise for peace
In speaking for those who can’t
Do I watch with folded arms
Concentrate on my rhymes
And on the chemistry of metals
Ignore what’s going on
The slaughter of the sheep
If not by the gun
By starvation, and by disease
The ones without guards to guard the body
This is a strange place in time
The strong kill for peace!
The weak remain on the run
The wise man is drowning in his bottle
The beast is wearing sheep’s skin
And I hate what I write…

WINE comes in at the mouth
And love comes in at the eye;
That's all we shall know for truth
Before we grow old and die.
I lift the glass to my mouth,
I look at you, and I sigh.

There are songs for the morning and songs for the night,
For sunrise and sunset, the stars and the moon;
But who will give praise to the fulness of light,
And sing us a song of the glory of noon?
Oh, the high noon, the clear noon,
The noon with golden crest;
When the blue sky burns, and the great sun turns
With his face to the way of the west!
How swiftly he rose in the dawn of his strength;
How slowly he crept as the morning wore by;
Ah, steep was the climbing that led him at length
To the height of his throne in the wide summer sky.
Oh, the long toil, the slow toil,
The toil that may not rest,
Till the sun looks down from his journey's crown,
To the wonderful way of the west!
Then a quietness falls over meadow and hill,
The wings of the wind in the forest are furled,
The river runs softly, the birds are all still,
The workers are resting all over the world.
Oh, the good hour, the kind hour,
The hour that calms the breast!
Little inn half-way on the road of the day,
Where it follows the turn to the west!
There's a plentiful feast in the maple-tree shade,
The lilt of a song to an old-fashioned tune,
The talk of a friend, or the kiss of a maid,
To sweeten the cup that we drink to the noon.
Oh, the deep noon, the full noon,
Of all the day the best!
When the blue sky burns, and the great sun turns
To his home by the way of the west.

The memory of you emerges from the night around me.
The river mingles its stubborn lament with the sea.
Deserted like the wharves at dawn.
It is the hour of departure, oh deserted one!
Cold flower heads are raining over my heart.
Oh pit of debris, fierce cave of the shipwrecked.
In you the wars and the flights accumulated.
From you the wings of the song birds rose.
You swallowed everything, like distance.
Like the sea, like time. In you everything sank!
It was the happy hour of assault and the kiss.
The hour of the spell that blazed like a lighthouse.
Pilot's dread, fury of blind driver,
turbulent drunkenness of love, in you everything sank!
In the childhood of mist my soul, winged and wounded.
Lost discoverer, in you everything sank!
You girdled sorrow, you clung to desire,
sadness stunned you, in you everything sank!
I made the wall of shadow draw back,
beyond desire and act, I walked on.
Oh flesh, my own flesh, woman whom I loved and lost,
I summon you in the moist hour, I raise my song to you.
Like a jar you housed infinite tenderness.
and the infinite oblivion shattered you like a jar.
There was the black solitude of the islands,
and there, woman of love, your arms took me in.
There was thirst and hunger, and you were the fruit.
There were grief and ruins, and you were the miracle.
Ah woman, I do not know how you could contain me
in the earth of your soul, in the cross of your arms!
How terrible and brief my desire was to you!
How difficult and drunken, how tensed and avid.
Cemetery of kisses, there is still fire in your tombs,
still the fruited boughs burn, pecked at by birds.
Oh the bitten mouth, oh the kissed limbs,
oh the hungering teeth, oh the entwined bodies.
Oh the mad coupling of hope and force
in which we merged and despaired.
And the tenderness, light as water and as flour.
And the word scarcely begun on the lips.
This was my destiny and in it was my voyage of my longing,
and in it my longing fell, in you everything sank!
Oh pit of debris, everything fell into you,
what sorrow did you not express, in what sorrow are you not drowned!
From billow to billow you still called and sang.
Standing like a sailor in the prow of a vessel.
You still flowered in songs, you still brike the currents.
Oh pit of debris, open and bitter well.
Pale blind diver, luckless slinger,
lost discoverer, in you everything sank!
It is the hour of departure, the hard cold hour
which the night fastens to all the timetables.
The rustling belt of the sea girdles the shore.
Cold stars heave up, black birds migrate.
Deserted like the wharves at dawn.
Only tremulous shadow twists in my hands.
Oh farther than everything. Oh farther than everything.
It is the hour of departure. Oh abandoned one!

The moon shimmers in green water.
White herons fly through the moonlight.
The young man hears a girl gathering water-chestnuts:
into the night, singing, they paddle home together.
Li T'ai-po
tr. Hamil

Wine comes in at the mouth
And love comes in at the eye;
That's all we shall know for truth
Before we grow old and die.
I lift the glass to my mouth,
I look at you, and I sigh.

I lie here thinking of you:---
the stain of love
is upon the world!
Yellow, yellow, yellow
it eats into the leaves,
smears with saffron
the horned branched the lean
heavily
against a smooth purple sky!
There is no light
only a honey-thick stain
that drips from leaf to leaf
and limb to limb
spoiling the colors
of the whole world-
you far off there under
the wine-red selvage of the west!

Mine are the night and morning,
The pits of air, the gulf of space,
The sportive sun, the gibbous moon,
The innumerable days.
I hid in the solar glory,
I am dumb in the pealing song,
I rest on the pitch of the torrent,
In slumber I am strong.
No numbers have counted my tallies,
No tribes my house can fill,
I sit by the shining Fount of Life,
And pour the deluge still;
And ever by delicate powers
Gathering along the centuries
From race on race the rarest flowers,
My wreath shall nothing miss.
And many a thousand summers
My apples ripened well,
And light from meliorating stars
With firmer glory fell.
I wrote the past in characters
Of rock and fire the scroll,
The building in the coral sea,
The planting of the coal.
And thefts from satellites and rings
And broken stars I drew,
And out of spent and aged things
I formed the world anew;
What time the gods kept carnival,
Tricked out in star and flower,
And in cramp elf and saurian forms
They swathed their too much power.
Time and Thought were my surveyors,
They laid their courses well,
They boiled the sea, and baked the layers
Or granite, marl, and shell.
But he, the man-child glorious,--
Where tarries he the while?
The rainbow shines his harbinger,
The sunset gleams his smile.
My boreal lights leap upward,
Forthright my planets roll,
And still the man-child is not born,
The summit of the whole.
Must time and tide forever run?
Will never my winds go sleep in the west?
Will never my wheels which whirl the sun
And satellites have rest?
Too much of donning and doffing,
Too slow the rainbow fades,
I weary of my robe of snow,
My leaves and my cascades;
I tire of globes and races,
Too long the game is played;
What without him is summer's pomp,
Or winter's frozen shade?
I travail in pain for him,
My creatures travail and wait;
His couriers come by squadrons,
He comes not to the gate.
Twice I have moulded an image,
And thrice outstretched my hand,
Made one of day, and one of night,
And one of the salt sea-sand.
One in a Judaean manger,
And one by Avon stream,
One over against the mouths of Nile,
And one in the Academe.
I moulded kings and saviours,
And bards o'er kings to rule;--
But fell the starry influence short,
The cup was never full.
Yet whirl the glowing wheels once more,
And mix the bowl again;
Seethe, fate! the ancient elements,
Heat, cold, wet, dry, and peace, and pain.
Let war and trade and creeds and song
Blend, ripen race on race,
The sunburnt world a man shall breed
Of all the zones, and countless days.
No ray is dimmed, no atom worn,
My oldest force is good as new,
And the fresh rose on yonder thorn
Gives back the bending heavens in dew.

Sweetest love, I do not go,
For weariness of thee,
Nor in hope the world can show
A fitter love for me;
But since that I
Must die at last, 'tis best
To use myself in jest
Thus by feign'd deaths to die.
Yesternight the sun went hence,
And yet is here today;
He hath no desire nor sense,
Nor half so short a way:
Then fear not me,
But believe that I shall make
Speedier journeys, since I take
More wings and spurs than he.
O how feeble is man's power,
That if good fortune fall,
Cannot add another hour,
Nor a lost hour recall!
But come bad chance,
And we join to'it our strength,
And we teach it art and length,
Itself o'er us to'advance.
When thou sigh'st, thou sigh'st not wind,
But sigh'st my soul away;
When thou weep'st, unkindly kind,
My life's blood doth decay.
It cannot be
That thou lov'st me, as thou say'st,
If in thine my life thou waste,
That art the best of me.
Let not thy divining heart
Forethink me any ill;
Destiny may take thy part,
And may thy fears fulfil;
But think that we
Are but turn'd aside to sleep;
They who one another keep
Alive, ne'er parted be.

You swallowed everything, like distance.
Like the sea, like time.
In you everything sank!
It was the happy hour of assault and the kiss.
The hour of the spell that blazed like a lighthouse.
Pilot's dread, fury of a blind diver,
turbulent drunkenness of love,
in you everything sank!

Heartbeat so strong,
Beating fast holding on.
Mothers tears falling down,
Slowly allowing time to fade round.
Guilty conscience its ok,
No time for sadness,
No time for blame.
Doctors that come bringing sadness and hope,
Reality sinks in dose by dose.
Gentle hand, beautiful smile.
Nothing like the love of ones child.
Anger at all that's happened and still,
Cannot change what must be gods will.
Families that circle and bring comfort to all.
Will share ones strength when the other must fall.
Stronger men have come and gone.
While women have wept and stood strong to carry on.
No matter the distance,
Or time and space,
Heartache will heal,
And the emptyness fade.

Teardrops fall down my face.
The mistakes I cant replace.
The days I forgot,
The memories I lost.
And all because I was killed inside.
Poisoned by youre secrets like cyanide.
I lost myself forgot my friends.
Headed towards the dark end.
And I try but the harder I try,
the more I fail the more I lie.
And I have to beilive than I can go on.
Even when everything has turned out wrong.
I have to keep going in the hopes of tommorow.
Waiting for the day without any sorrow.

I'll Be Sorrow Tomorrow
I'll be sorrow tomorrow,
With me myself and I.
I'll be sorrow tomorrow,
Holding myself while I cry.
I'll be sorrow tomorrow,
While lying sleepless in my bed.
I'll be sorrow the next day as one thought haunts my head.
And when I finally rest my lids and cease my icy breath,
That one thought will exist no longer,
That horrible thought of death.
Ruby

One can hear the voice of sorrow sobbing, sobbing endlessly
Yet it hides in dark recesses sorrow you can never see
It's a black and brooding creature with a voice that aches of pain
And all of those who have met with it hope not to meet with it again.
Joy is always bright and breezy joy has got a laughing face
And where ever joy is present you will find a happy place
Joy is loved by everybody the scars of grief it can repair
It is such a happy creature joy is welcome everywhere.
There is not one who likes sorrow you will not hear some one say
I've met with sorrow this morning and meeting it has made my day
At the mention of the name of sorrow people pretend not to hear
But joy always bright and happy greets you with a lusty cheer.
Sorrow it is dark and tearful and it hides in a dark and lonely place
But joy is always bright and cheerful and it greets you with a laughing face
And everybody hates old sorrow as it always gives rise to woe
But joy the happiest of the happy the one all people wish to know.

Can little sweetness be added to sorrow?
Can sadness be not pushed aside for tomorrow?
When both are interwoven to each other
Why to think of them more and bother?
Pure or true love can never deceive
Warmth and feelings we always receive
Best ideas emanate from within and peace be conceived
Does that speak of real intention as goal is perceived?
Let love speak and not remain or confine within
Eyes must reveal and nothing should remain in
It is very much essential and must prevail at last
Acceptance should be made known very fast
I must acknowledge it as God sent gift
Why to have in life more tussles and rift?
We should never change stand and shift
Switch over from one to another should be very swift
I am prepared to forgo prestige and pride
Why in love it should be sought and hide?
Simple admission of true feelings and no guilt
Trust the opinion and strong foundation to be built
I shall seek no favor in return
Let my love grow and cause no concern
Earnest desire must be explained in turn
Let there be real union without any heart burn
May be in my life today is the happiest day
I will continue to seek and have my way
Let her remain true to her conscience and say
Never will we be separated, come what may!
Things may prove difficult if it turns out differently
Both have to think it honestly and approach separately
Time may run out us and not allow us to unite
Passion may remain passion only and within ignite
We may take steps to see that it doesn’t turn ugly
It may be too early also to forecast it so early
Still it will remain our top priority to tackle the issue
We must get in turn what ever is destined to be due
We will not be cowed down with by unexpected events
We will face it bravely when it is made known very next moment
We will not allow it to happen and take us completely by surprise
But all possibilities are definitely there and bound to arise
We shall from now on shed no tears and face the reality
We shall stand firm and come up bravely for any eventuality
It has to be faced with as if dealing with any of the disaster
We must carve out the way and destiny as done by master

Its just a small story
And I feel the need to say it
I just couldn't take it anymore
The pain he was causing me
It was just too much for me to bare
It was only that night
Which I realized that I had to do it
I gave you a text message
Apologizing, but in the same time
Telling you that I had to be strong
And forget you
It was over
I never worried about my past or future
And you were my past
That was the only thing
Which was clear to me
Suddenly you call me
Asking for an explanation
I told you it was too much for me to put up with
You did your best to apologize
But it was all in vain
There was no time for another try
Although a big future was awaiting the both of us
You still tried to apologize
But I was too stubborn to try once more
All I did was close my phone
And go to bed
Hoping that till tomorrow I would have forgotten you
I feel asleep very fast
Because all the tears I cried had finally made their effect
The next morning I woke up happily
As I turned my phone on I was ready to call you
But then I just froze there
Doing absolutely nothing
Remembering I could no longer be with you
I went to our special place
Next to the pink lake
Under our blossom tree
But I saw someone was already there
It was you
I started quivering
You turn around to me and fake a smile
But even his fake smile soon faded away
Apologizing once more
With little hope in your heart
A tear runs down my face
And I run to you
You open your arms widely
Patiently waiting for me
To throw myself in them
It was exactly what I did
You tell me you're never going to do any mistake
Never again in your life
I tell you that I just can't live without you
It was that night
I realized how much I love you
How much I care for you
How I'm addicted to you
You're like a drug for me
And I'll never check in a rehab
With such a satisfactory drug
Like the one which is on my mind right now
That drug is you
Now we just go on with our lives
Being there for each other
With no fake smiles
With no secrets
Only with a flame in both our hearts
A flame which will burn forever

Remember when lives were lost
You sleep and there is sorrow
Sorrow is when you’re awake.
Sorrow is the feeling you wish was fake
Sorrow is like your skin always attached to you.
Sorrow is like a tree sometimes you don't even pay attention to it, it's just there.
It is the feeling, which makes you, feels like your sad or it's unfair.
But you can't live without sorrow.
Just like you can't live without love.
Sorrow might even be the key to love

I pass the weeping willow,
wondering for whom it cries.
Could it be for all God’s children
falling like stars in the sky?
I hear the sound of blowing wind,
wondering for whom it moans.
Could it be for all God’s children
who must wander with no home?
I hear the sound of the lonely wolf,
wondering for whom it howls.
Could it be for all God’s children
who must sleep with empty bowels?
I hear the sound of the church bells,
wondering for whom they toll.
Perhaps they toll to remind all God’s children
to do the good deeds they were told.

The women of your age I train my eyes on
Remind me of you through some resemblances
And some violent contrasts now and then.
Nose studs and ear drops I see in the shops
Catch my eyes and bring to my view your face.
I imagine the stud worn on your nose
And with that how your nose would tempt my lips.
I imagine the drops hung from your ears
And with that how your ears would prompt me.
When I am lonely you are in my thought;
I dream of passing my hand through your hair
And gazing into your eyes full of love.
To bring this about, I must conquer Fate
As I accuse myself of cowardice.
I have no courage nor propriety
Even to let you know my feelings.
This is my sorrow that cripples my mind.
This is my agony underlining.
02.11.2008

A light exists in spring
Not present on the year
At any other period.
When March is scarcely here
A color stands abroad
On solitary hills
That science cannot overtake,
But human naturefeels.
It waits upon the lawn;
It shows the furthest tree
Upon the furthest slope we know;
It almost speaks to me.
Then, as horizons step,
Or noons report away,
Without the formula of sound,
It passes, and we stay:
A quality of loss
Affecting our content,
As trade had suddenly encroached
Upon a sacrament.

My mother
Foresaw deaths
And walked among
Chrysanthemums,
Winecolored,
Withe red rose,
The earthy blossoms.
My very breath
Disowned
In nights of study,
And page by page
I came on spring.
The rats run on the roof,
These words come hard---
Sadder than cockcrow
In a dreamless, earthen sleep.
The Christ, eternal
In the scented cold; my love,
Her hand on the sill
White, as if out of earth;
And spring, the sleep of the dead.

In spring rain
a pretty girl
yawning.
Translated by Robert Hass

Now spring has clad the grove in green,
And strew'd the lea wi' flowers;
The furrow'd, waving corn is seen
Rejoice in fostering showers:
While ilka thing in nature join
Their sorrows to forego,
O why thus all alone are mine
The weary steps of woe?
The trout in yonder wimpling burn
That glides, a silver dart,
And safe beneath the shady thorn
Defies the angler's art --
My life was ance that careless stream,
That wanton trout was I;
But love, wi' unrelenting beam,
Has scorch'd my fountains dry.
The little flow'ret's peaceful lot,
In yonder cliff that grows,
Which, save the linnet's flight, I wot,
Nae ruder visit knows,
Was mine; till love has o'er me past,
And blighted a' my bloom,
And now beneath the with'ring blast
My youth and joy consume.
The waken'd lav'rock warbling springs,
And climbs the early sky,
Winnowing blythe her dewy wings
In morning's rosy eye:
As little reckt I sorrow's power,
Until the flowery snare
O' witching love, in luckless hour,
Made me the thrall o' care.
O had my fate been Greenland snows,
Or Afric's burning zone,
Wi' man and nature leagu'd my foes,
So Peggy ne'er I'd known!
The wretch whase doom is, "hope nae mair,"
What tongue his woes can tell!
Within whase bosom, save despair,
Nae kinder spirits dwell.

Margaret, are you grieving
Over Goldengrove unleaving?
Leaves, like the things of man, you
With your fresh thoughts care for, can you?
Ah! as the heart grows older
It will come to such sights colder
By and by, nor spare a sigh
Though worlds of wanwood leafmeal lie;
And yet you will weep and know why.
Now no matter, child, the name:
Sorrow's springs are the same.
Nor mouth had, no nor mind, expressed
What heart heard of, ghost guessed:
It is the blight man was born for,
It is Margaret you mourn for.

London Bridge is falling down, Rome's burnt and Babylon
The Great is now but dust; yet still Spring must
Swing back through Time's continual arc to earth.
Though every land become as a black field
Dunged with the dead, drenched by the dying's blood,
Still must a punctual goddess waken and ascend
The rocky stairs, up into earth's chilled air,
And pass upon her mission through those carrion ranks,
Picking her way among a maze of broken brick
To quicken with her footsteps the short sooty grass between;
While now once more their futile matchwood empires flare and blaze
And through the smoke men gaze with bloodshot eyes
At the translucent apparition, clad in trembling nascent green
Of one they still can recognize, though scarcely understand.

Nothing is so beautiful as spring --
When weeds, in wheels, shoot long and lovely and lush;
Thrush's eggs look little low heavens, and thrush
Through the echoing timber does so rinse and wring
The ear, it strikes like lightnings to hear him sing;
The glassy peartree leaves and blooms, they brush
The descending blue; that blue is all in a rush
With richness; the racing lambs too have fair their fling.
What is all this juice and all this joy?
A strain of the earth's sweet being in the beginning
In Eden garden. -- Have, get, before it cloy,
Before it cloud, Christ, lord, and sour with sinning,
Innocent mind and Mayday in girl and boy,
Most, O maid's child, thy choice and worthy the winning.

Spring, the sweet spring, is the year's pleasant king,
Then blooms each thing, then maids dance in a ring,
Cold doth not sting, the pretty birds do sing:
Cuckoo, jug-jug, pu-we, to-witta-woo!
The palm and may make country houses gay,
Lambs frisk and play, the shepherds pipe all day,
And we hear aye birds tune this merry lay:
Cuckoo, jug-jug, pu-we, to-witta-woo!
The fields breathe sweet, the daisies kiss our feet,
Young lovers meet, old wives a-sunning sit,
In every street these tunes our ears do greet:
Cuckoo, jug-jug, pu-we, to witta-woo!

The winter comes; I walk alone,
I want no bird to sing;
To those who keep their hearts their own
The winter is the spring.
No flowers to please--no bees to hum--
The coming spring's already come.
I never want the Christmas rose
To come before its time;
The seasons, each as God bestows,
Are simple and sublime.
I love to see the snowstorm hing;
'Tis but the winter garb of spring.
I never want the grass to bloom:
The snowstorm's best in white.
I love to see the tempest come
And love its piercing light.
The dazzled eyes that love to cling
O'er snow-white meadows sees the spring.
I love the snow, the crumpling snow
That hangs on everything,
It covers everything below
Like white dove's brooding wing,
A landscape to the aching sight,
A vast expanse of dazzling light.
It is the foliage of the woods
That winters bring--the dress,
White Easter of the year in bud,
That makes the winter Spring.
The frost and snow his posies bring,
Nature's white spurts of the spring.

240
Ah, Moon—and Star!
You are very far—
But were no one
Farther than you—
Do you think I'd stop
For a Firmament—
Or a Cubit—or so?
I could borrow a Bonnet
Of the Lark—
And a Chamois' Silver Boot—
And a stirrup of an Antelope—
And be with you—Tonight!
But, Moon, and Star,
Though you're very far—
There is one—farther than you—
He—is more than a firmament—from Me—
So I can never go!

The morning star have shined anew
More brightly like a mountain glow
Unnotice as it were seen well apart
For the eyes of a believer a bond
The lines of precepts made it grand!
You've travelled far to search souls
With God's Love, Mercy, Wisdom caress:
Bring forth a prize in tested avenues
As gospel notes a plentiful stride
Keeping you affront against evil's pride!
God gave you tests to endure to bear on
Never to lose sight against his presence;
For many are called only few are chosen
To take note of your lines by lines open
To the eyes of those who kept unbelieving!
You shall be like a seagull in the snow
Striving hard to walk afar a grinding pit:
For, you teach those who preferred weakness
To make them stronger least above yourself;
For a mission heartily sought, a reward's done!
For a good man out of the good treasure of
His heart brings forth that which is good;
An evil man out of the evil treasure of
His heart brings forth that which is evil:
For the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks!
Don't lose sight upon those remained unseen
By your naked eyes, a wisdom is purely bared;
To teach the weak to be strong and strong weak
Strikes a balance that your inner self find through!
As the wind, you shall carry sleepy souls
And amid your humble stride, lions kneel:
For your wings is beckoned like a prey
In the eyes of believers, great like light,
Home is your crowning days await you back!
But, remember of the sayings of old man prays:
Away with pride for it serves like rotten egg
In your heart keep love and faith a virtue seed;
Fly high like a seagull in the sky of hope
Remember that a tree is found in the ground!
In your reckoning, find faith, hope and love
Though the wonders of a marvelous work of God:
The Book of Books crying out of the dust
Serving like a living spirit in your heart.
The Book of Mormon is a pearl of great price
The doctrine and covenant of man with God!
And a star shines upon your heart.

As I stare upon you, Evening Star
From the land where sorrows reign
I envy you, oh star of night
Who never has known pain
Star you shine with hope and peace,
For all the world to see.
Brightest of the stars tonight,
One wish might you grant me?
I do not wish for the magic
Of the Fairies' song
Its sweet true tune would not survive
Amid our mortal throng.
Nor do I wish to own the power
To rule the earth and sea,
For power only robs a man
Of Strength and dignity.
I do not wish to love a man
Or another's love obtain
For love upon this world of hate,
Can only end in pain.
I dare not wish for life eternal
To never age a day,
To live and watch my loved ones die
Is a price I cannot pay.
Star, shining in the heavens.
Light and life you share
This one wish I ask of you
Might I join you there?

I wished upon a star one day
As it went shooting through the sky,
I wished upon a star one day
As it passed me by.
I wished upon a star one day
That my prays come true,
I wished upon a star one day
And then i thought of you.
I wished upon a star one day
And realised i was crying,
I wished upon a star one day
Then dreamed that i was dying.
I wished upon a star one day
But my wish never became real,
I wished upon a star one day
And realised what i feel....
Nothing!

All, that I know
Of a certain star
Is, it can throw
(Like the angled spar)
Now a dart of red,
Now a dart of blue
Till my friends have said
They would fain see, too,
My star that dartles the red and the blue!
Then it stops like a bird; like a flower, hangs furled:
They must solace themselves with the Saturn above it.
What matter to me if their star is a world?
Mine has opened its soul to me; therefore I love it.

Bright star of beauty, on whose eyelids sit
A thousand nymph-like and enamour'd Graces,
The Goddesses of Memory and Wit,
Which there in order take their several places;
In whose dear bosom sweet delicious Love
Lays down his quiver, which he once did bear,
Since he that blessed Paradise did prove,
And leaves his mother's lap to sport him there.
Let others strive to entertain with words;
My soul is of a braver metal made;
I hold that vile which vulgar wit affords;
In me's that faith which Time cannot invade.
Let what I praise be still made good by you;
Be you most worthy, whilst I am most true.

The star that surrounds me,
The star has gone away.
Can we look forward to seeing it again?
Is it death calling for me?
Is it light from up above.
No one knows except for me.
It's hope and laughter crashing me down into the street.
I need you.

The North Star whispers: "You are one
Of those whose course no chance can change.
You blunder, but are not undone,
Your spirit-task is fixed and strange.
"When here you walk, a bloodless shade,
A singer all men else forget.
Your chants of hammer, forge and spade
Will move the prarie-village yet.
"That young, stiff-necked, reviling town
Beholds your fancies on her walls,
And paints them out or tears them down,
Or bars them from her feasting halls.
"Yet shall the fragments still remain;
Yet shall remain some watch-tower strong
That ivy-vines will not disdain,
Haunted and trembling with your song.
"Your flambeau in the dusk shall burn,
Flame high in storms, flame white and clear;
Your ghost in gleaming robes return
And burn a deathless incense here."

Thou lingering star, with less'ning ray,
That lov'st to greet the early morn,
Again thou usherast in the day
My Mary from my soul was torn.
O Mary, dear departed shade
Where is thy place of blissful rest?
See'st thou thy lover lowly laid?
Hear'st thou the groans that rend his breast?
That sacred hour can I forget?
Can I forget the hallow'd grove
Where, by the winding Ayr, we met,
To live one day of parting love?
Eternity cannot efface
Those records dear of transports past,
Thy image at our last embrace---
Ah! little thought we 'twas our last!
Ayr, gurgling, kiss'd his pebbled shore,
O'erhung with wild-woods, thickening green;
The fragrant birch and hawthorn hoar,
Twin'd amorous round the raptur'd scene;
The flowers sprang wanton to be prest
The birds sang love on every spray
Till too, too soon, the glowing west,
Proclaim'd the speed of winged day.
Still o'er these scenes my mem'ry wakes,
And fondly broods with miser-care;
Time but th' impression stronger makes,
As streams their channels deeper wear.
O Mary! dear departed shade!
Where is thy place of blissful rest?
See'st thou thy lover lowly laid?
Hear'st thou the groans that rend his breast?

Armed with aptitude, ambition, ability;
being yourself all the time;
carrying calmness of mind and clarity of thought;
dressed in desire, determination, discipline and dedication;
enveloped in effulgence, empathy and enthusiasm;
fired by faith and fervor and
graced by gratitude and good health.
Hard work, honesty and humility,
intellect, intuition,  indefatigable passion and
joie de vivre – all these being your friends always.
Kindness in thought, word and deed and
laziness always kept at bay.
Making the most of your time,
never thinking of ever giving up
or being afraid of taking a risk,
putting your heart, mind and soul into everything,
questioning yourself all the time and
rectifying mistakes made along the way.
Self-confidence and a strong desire
to make it to the finish line…
using whatever resources available and
vocalizing only positive thoughts.
When things don’t seem to go your way,
(e) xtraordinary patience and perseverance will pay.
You will see in the end that
zenith is not too far away.
Geeta Ashok
7/9/2010
5 pm

As you're walkin' down the street
dreaming of a better day
please look down, close to your feet
floats a shadow, and it may
look familiar to your eyes
it is always there for you
never tells you little lies
never gives the slightest clue.
It is Death, your dearest friend
he will stay until you die
go, look down but do not bend
do not ask him when and why.
Just remember when you fret
that your profit is too meagre
that the only foolproof bet
quite regardless of how eager
you live out your precious time
is the fact that it will end.
Up the ladder you may climb
when suddenly the Gods will send
one brief signal to your keeper
and you slide, with care, back down
as he shows you, your grim reaper:
No pockets in your final gown.

How does a person determine his or her worth
You may ask what is your purpose on this earth
When you look for the answer... who do you ask
Who is appropriately delegated to take on the task
What scale of degrees will measure your qualities
Will you fill a predetermined mold and aim to please
Become self-sufficient while taking care of your needs
It is important to balance the budget with your proceeds
Become educated and develop skills with knowledge
Train to be someone who makes a sincere pledge
Fulfillment will tell you when you have finally arrived
Be content and satisfied... don’t let yourself be contrived
Reserve a portion of time for your family and friends
The caring attention you give has rewarding dividends
In the end, will you be able to say with a straight face…
I didn’t just take up space... I made the world a better place
revised 2/11/2011

Success is not the triumph over regress,
Success is the power to suppress.
Success is not the money or the fame,
Success is, knowing you are still the same.
Success is not the power or the pride.
Success is the knowing how to hide.
Success is not a gift or gain,
Success is accepting and believing in your name.
Success is not a point or goal to seek,
Success is, believing you have never reached the peak.
Success is

Don't lose your heart if failures come with ease;
Build up courage and try again-succeed;
Let failures not disturb your mental peace;
Delayed if mirth is sure to well exceed.
Rewards may come to some in ways unknown;
Rewards may miss the truly talented;
Rewards may make a person sometimes clown;
All flowers aren't born to be well-scented.
Though failures come, our duty we must do;
Let Nature take its time and course it must;
Results could be very untoward too;
Our human eyes cannot avoid road-dust.
The patient man will soon succeed in life;
But one knows not, how long can last one's strife.

If Success was Happiness
Then achievers would be glad
But look around and you will find
That many of them are sad
Of course, Achievement gives joy
And excitement, oh boy!
But when our need becomes our greed
To misery, this will lead
The whole world is chasing Success
Everyone wants achievement
Sometimes we win, sometimes we lose
There is no Contentment
Why do people want to succeed?
Why is everyone in a race?
The Truth is that we want to win
So that there is a smile on our face
But though we win, we are not glad
We have money, why are we sad?
Happiness is not money, the sages said
It's sleeping soundly when you are in bed
We hear of suicides in the homes of the rich
If they were Happy, then why this glitch?
Although they are achievers, this fact we know
They are not Happy, their face has no glow
If successful, but unhappy, what is the use?
Winning or smiling, what would you choose?
The purpose of Success is for us to be glad
What is the use of winning, if it makes us sad?
Happiness is something different, we learn
Not just money that we earn and burn
Happiness is built on a foundation of peace
Then we are blissful like waves in the seas
Look around at the people who are glad
They live in the moment, they are never sad
They don't swing from the future to the past
They are the ones whose Happiness lasts
Happiness has no price tag, know this my friend
It's a state of mind where nothing can offend
It's being able to smile, and able to laugh
Not just trying to raise our Success graph
We can't measure joy in dollar and pound
Happy is he who peace has found
Though we may fly the world around
We may be miserable on the ground
Success is not Happiness, this Truth we must know
We may have everything, what's the use of this show?
The truly successful one is he
Who lives with smile, laughter, and glee
If one is Happy, then one has achieved all
One doesn't have to be rich and in fame be tall
One can have little, but if content is he
Then he can live joyously
Achievement gives Happiness, this fact we know
But with Fulfilment and Contentment, does Happiness grow
One who is Happy, doesn't need to win
He has Peace and Joy without committing sin
Joy doesn't need a foundation of cash
One doesn't have to be rich, to enjoy life's bash
Happiness is a simple state of the mind
It comes from being loving, it comes from being Kind
Happiness is Success. It is achieving life's goal
It is being Happy in the heart, Peaceful in the Soul
True Happiness is eternal, not just a moment of joy
It last's forever, it can't be destroyed
Success is a journey of valleys and peaks
Life is a see-saw, there arelaughs and squeaks
Success, unlike Happiness, doesn't last for long
But the truly Happy ones always sing a Happy song
So, Success is not Happiness, Happiness is Success
You may be an achiever, whose heart is not at rest
But though not successful, if Happy you are
Then you are an achiever, you are the very best

Success is fraught with failures,
only those who keep trying in the face of adversity.
Will overcome the odds, and are the ones who will succeed.

I think if you had loved me when I wanted;
If I'd looked up one day, and seen your eyes,
And found my wild sick blasphemous prayer granted,
And your brown face, that's full of pity and wise,
Flushed suddenly; the white godhead in new fear
Intolerably so struggling, and so shamed;
Most holy and far, if you'd come all too near,
If earth had seen Earth's lordliest wild limbs tamed,
Shaken, and trapped, and shivering, for MY touch --
Myself should I have slain? or that foul you?
But this the strange gods, who had given so much,
To have seen and known you, this they might not do.
One last shame's spared me, one black word's unspoken;
And I'm alone; and you have not awoken.

When young I often thought success,
Meant wealth and power I must stress,
An easy life, with all lifes pleasures,
A mansion high, with worldly treasures,
Tours abroad to places new,
While in some bank my money grew,
Some people yes, tis aim they try,
Yet still a dream for you and I .
Late in life I thought again,
Together still through joys and pain,
Yes, we are wed through all those years
Sharing troubled times and tears,
Our money spent on all our plans,
Yet still so happy, holding hands,
Our children grown, as we grew old,
Your love for me worth more than gold
This love we share, I now caress,
I feel the secret of success.

Open the window, and let the air
Freshly blow upon face and hair,
And fill the room, as it fills the night,
With the breath of the rain's sweet might.
Hark! the burthen, swift and prone!
And how the odorous limes are blown!
Stormy Love's abroad, and keeps
Hopeful coil for gentle sleeps.
Not a blink shall burn to-night
In my chamber, of sordid light;
Nought will I have, not a window-pane,
'Twixt me and the air and the great good rain,
Which ever shall sing me sharp lullabies;
And God's own darkness shall close mine eyes;
And I will sleep, with all things blest,
In the pure earth-shadow of natural rest.

Between the dusk of a summer night
And the dawn of a summer day,
We caught at a mood as it passed in flight,
And we bade it stoop and stay.
And what with the dawn of night began
With the dusk of day was done;
For that is the way of woman and man,
When a hazard has made them one.
Arc upon arc, from shade to shine,
The World went thundering free;
And what was his errand but hers and mine --
The lords of him, I and she?
O, it's die we must, but it's live we can,
And the marvel of earth and sun
Is all for the joy of woman and man
And the longing that makes them one.

Her final summer was it,
And yet we guessed it not;
If tenderer industriousness
Pervaded her, we thought
A further force of life
Developed from within,--
When Death lit all the shortness up,
And made the hurry plain.
We wondered at our blindness,--
When nothing was to see
But her Carrara guide-post,--
At our stupidity
When, duller than our dulness,
The busy darling lay,
So busy was she, finishing,
So leisurely were we!

I
I see the boys of summer in their ruin
Lay the gold tithings barren,
Setting no store by harvest, freeze the soils;
Theire in their heat the winter floods
Of frozen loves they fetch their girls,
And drown the cargoed apples in their tides.
These boys of light are curdlers in their folly,
Sour the boiling honey;
The jacks of frost they finger in the hives;
There in the sun the frigid threads
Of doubt and dark they feed their nerves;
The signal moon is zero in their voids.
I see the summer children in their mothers
Split up the brawned womb's weathers,
Divide the night and day with fairy thumbs;
There in the deep with quartered shades
Of sun and moon they paint their dams
As sunlight paints the shelling of their heads.
I see that from these boys shall men of nothing
Stature by seedy shifting,
Or lame the air with leaping from its hearts;
There from their hearts the dogdayed pulse
Of love and light bursts in their throats.
O see the pulse of summer in the ice.
II
But seasons must be challenged or they totter
Into a chiming quarter
Where, punctual as death, we ring the stars;
There, in his night, the black-tongued bells
The sleepy man of winter pulls,
Nor blows back moon-and-midnight as she blows.
We are the dark deniers, let us summon
Death from a summer woman,
A muscling life from lovers in their cramp,
From the fair dead who flush the sea
The bright-eyed worm on Davy's lamp,
And from the planted womb the man of straw.
We summer boys in this four-winded spinning,
Green of the seaweed's iron,
Hold up the noisy sea and drop her birds,
Pick the world's ball of wave and froth
To choke the deserts with her tides,
And comb the county gardens for a wreath.
In spring we cross our foreheads with the holly,
Heigh ho the blood and berry,
And nail the merry squires to the trees;
Here love's damp muscle dries and dies,
Here break a kiss in no love's quarry.
O see the poles of promise in the boys.
III
I see the boys of summer in their ruin.
Man in his maggot's barren.
And boys are full and foreign in the pouch.
I am the man your father was.
We are the sons of flint and pitch.
O see the poles are kissing as they cross.

Branches naked against skies of blue,
Skeletons all, with summer gone,
Stark and rigid, in morbid hue,
Oh, so sad now, to look upon.
Festive trees no longer seen,
Nothing softening to the eye,
Only memories of what has been,
Now the leaves have said 'goodbye'.
But once the spring comes into view,
These skeletons will live and thrive,
Those spreading arms will be clothed anew,
And once again become alive.
New buds will sprout from boughs so bare,
And will in time, exposed limbs, disguise,
Then a glorious show, nothing will compare,
With this vision of green, against clear blue skies.
©   Ernestine Northover

One shows me how to lie down in a field of clover.
Another how to slip my hand under her Sunday skirt.
Another how to kiss with a mouth full of blackberries.
Another how to catch fireflies in jar after dark.
Here is a stable with a single black mare
And the proof of God's existence riding in a red nightgown.
Devil's child--or whatever she was?
Having the nerve to ask me to go get her a whip.

Come we to the summer, to the summer we will come,
For the woods are full of bluebells and the hedges full of bloom,
And the crow is on the oak a-building of her nest,
And love is burning diamonds in my true lover's breast;
She sits beneath the whitethorn a-plaiting of her hair,
And I will to my true lover with a fond request repair;
I will look upon her face, I will in her beauty rest,
And lay my aching weariness upon her lovely breast.
The clock-a-clay is creeping on the open bloom of May,
The merry bee is trampling the pinky threads all day,
And the chaffinch it is brooding on its grey mossy nest
In the whitethorn bush where I will lean upon my lover's breast;
I'll lean upon her breast and I'll whisper in her ear
That I cannot get a wink o'sleep for thinking of my dear;
I hunger at my meat and I daily fade away
Like the hedge rose that is broken in the heat of the day.

It is a sultry day; the sun has drank
The dew that lay upon the morning grass,
There is no rustling in the lofty elm
That canopies my dwelling, and its shade
Scarce cools me. All is silent, save the faint
And interrupted murmur of the bee,
Settling on the sick flowers, and then again
Instantly on the wing. The plants around
Feel the too potent fervors; the tall maize
Rolls up its long green leaves; the clover droops
Its tender foliage, and declines its blooms.
But far in the fierce sunshine tower the hills,
With all their growth of woods, silent and stern,
As if the scortching heat and dazzling light
Were but an element they loved. Bright clouds,
Motionless pillars of the brazen heaven;--
Their bases on the mountains--their white tops
Shining in the far ether--fire the air
With a reflected radiance, and make turn
The gazer's eye away. For me, I lie
Languidly in the shade, where the thick turf,
Yet virgin from the kisses of the sun,
Retains some freshness, and I woo the wind
That still delays its coming. Why so slow,
Gentle and voluble spirit of the air?
Oh, come and breathe upon the fainting earth
Coolness and life. Is it that in his caves
He hears me? See, on yonder woody ridge,
The pine is bending his proud top, and now,
Among the nearer groves, chesnut and oak
Are tossing their green boughs about. He comes!
Lo, where the grassy meadow runs in wives!
The deep distressful silence of the scene
Breaks up with mingling of unnumbered sounds
And universal motion. He is come,
Shaking a shower of blossoms from the shrubs,
And bearing on the fragrance; and he brings
Music of birds, and rustling of young boughs,
And soun of swaying branches, and the voice
Of distant waterfalls. All the green herbs
Are stirring in his breath; a thousand flowers,
By the road-side and the borders of the brook,
Nod gaily to each other; glossy leaves
Are twinkling in the sun, as if the dew
Were on them yet, and silver waters break
Into small waves and sparkle as he comes.

O thou who passest thro' our valleys in
Thy strength, curb thy fierce steeds, allay the heat
That flames from their large nostrils! thou, O Summer,
Oft pitched'st here thy goldent tent, and oft
Beneath our oaks hast slept, while we beheld
With joy thy ruddy limbs and flourishing hair.
Beneath our thickest shades we oft have heard
Thy voice, when noon upon his fervid car
Rode o'er the deep of heaven; beside our springs
Sit down, and in our mossy valleys, on
Some bank beside a river clear, throw thy
Silk draperies off, and rush into the stream:
Our valleys love the Summer in his pride.
Our bards are fam'd who strike the silver wire:
Our youth are bolder than the southern swains:
Our maidens fairer in the sprightly dance:
We lack not songs, nor instruments of joy,
Nor echoes sweet, nor waters clear as heaven,
Nor laurel wreaths against the sultry heat.

And the sun slept on into the day
and lay buried deep
where the wisemen say
its gone to find some peace.
O hand me this, this tired star
and let it be thrown
with a spiteful toss so far so far
so far from home
Throw it to night and the darkness it craves
hurl it into endless space
watch it as it slowly fades
with an upturned face
O hope O hope you treacherous dawn
that promised light would come again
but you've grown dim and now are gone
Come night my cursed friend

GIVE me the splendid silent sun, with all his beams full-dazzling;
Give me juicy autumnal fruit, ripe and red from the orchard;
Give me a field where the unmow'd grass grows;
Give me an arbor, give me the trellis'd grape;
Give me fresh corn and wheat--give me serene-moving animals, teaching
content;
Give me nights perfectly quiet, as on high plateaus west of the
Mississippi, and I looking up at the stars;
Give me odorous at sunrise a garden of beautiful flowers, where I can
walk undisturb'd;
Give me for marriage a sweet-breath'd woman, of whom I should never
tire;
Give me a perfect child--give me, away, aside from the noise of the
world, a rural, domestic life;
Give me to warble spontaneous songs, reliev'd, recluse by myself, for
my own ears only;                                            10
Give me solitude--give me Nature--give me again, O Nature, your
primal sanities!
--These, demanding to have them, (tired with ceaseless excitement,
and rack'd by the war-strife;)
These to procure, incessantly asking, rising in cries from my heart,
While yet incessantly asking, still I adhere to my city;
Day upon day, and year upon year, O city, walking your streets,
Where you hold me enchain'd a certain time, refusing to give me up;
Yet giving to make me glutted, enrich'd of soul--you give me forever
faces;
(O I see what I sought to escape, confronting, reversing my cries;
I see my own soul trampling down what it ask'd for.)
Keep your splendid, silent sun;                                    20
Keep your woods, O Nature, and the quiet places by the woods;
Keep your fields of clover and timothy, and your corn-fields and
orchards;
Keep the blossoming buckwheat fields, where the Ninth-month bees hum;
Give me faces and streets! give me these phantoms incessant and
endless along the trottoirs!
Give me interminable eyes! give me women! give me comrades and lovers
by the thousand!
Let me see new ones every day! let me hold new ones by the hand every
day!
Give me such shows! give me the streets of Manhattan!
Give me Broadway, with the soldiers marching--give me the sound of
the trumpets and drums!
(The soldiers in companies or regiments--some, starting away, flush'd
and reckless;
Some, their time up, returning, with thinn'd ranks--young, yet very
old, worn, marching, noticing nothing;)                      30
--Give me the shores and the wharves heavy-fringed with the black
ships!
O such for me! O an intense life! O full to repletion, and varied!
The life of the theatre, bar-room, huge hotel, for me!
The saloon of the steamer! the crowded excursion for me! the torch-
light procession!
The dense brigade, bound for the war, with high piled military wagons
following;
People, endless, streaming, with strong voices, passions, pageants;
Manhattan streets, with their powerful throbs, with the beating
drums, as now;
The endless and noisy chorus, the rustle and clank of muskets, (even
the sight of the wounded;)
Manhattan crowds, with their turbulent musical chorus--with varied
chorus, and light of the sparkling eyes;
Manhattan faces and eyes forever for me.                           40

188
Make me a picture of the sun—
So I can hang it in my room—
And make believe I'm getting warm
When others call it "Day"!
Draw me a Robin—on a stem—
So I am hearing him, I'll dream,
And when the Orchards stop their tune—
Put my pretense—away—
Say if it's really—warm at noon—
Whether it's Buttercups—that "skim"—
Or Butterflies—that "bloom"?
Then—skip—the frost—upon the lea—
And skip the Russet—on the tree—
Let's play those—never come!

O SUN of real peace! O hastening light!
O free and extatic! O what I here, preparing, warble for!
O the sun of the world will ascend, dazzling, and take his height--
and you too, O my Ideal, will surely ascend!
O so amazing and broad--up there resplendent, darting and burning!
O vision prophetic, stagger'd with weight of light! with pouring
glories!
O lips of my soul, already becoming powerless!
O ample and grand Presidentiads! Now the war, the war is over!
New history! new heroes! I project you!
Visions of poets! only you really last! sweep on! sweep on!
O heights too swift and dizzy yet!                                 10
O purged and luminous! you threaten me more than I can stand!
(I must not venture--the ground under my feet menaces me--it will not
support me:
O future too immense,)--O present, I return, while yet I may, to you.

staring into the sun
white light
pure essence
the burning love
hypnotic fare
resolute dawn of darkness
the eyes succumb
thirst for pure water
to chill the warm blood
pumping to the charred cornea
essential will
broken by nature
made & broken
seduced by beauty
the danger of vision
i stared in wonder
til i could no more
senses flared
flaming
excruciating joy
the brilliance
incoherent, insolvable
now dead to sense
recoverable only in
the pagan ether of each new dawn
a twinge of soft light
searing the edges
of black vision
& colours remembered
sights seen
unbelievable now.

ANGEL, king of streaming morn;
Cherub, call'd by Heav'n to shine;
T' orient tread the waste forlorn;
Guide aetherial, pow'r divine;
Thou, Lord of all within!
Golden spirit, lamp of day,
Host, that dips in blood the plain,
Bids the crimson'd mead be gay,
Bids the green blood burst the vein;
Thou, Lord of all within!
Soul, that wraps the globe in light;
Spirit, beckoning to arise;
Drives the frowning brow of night,
Glory bursting o'er the skies;
Thou, Lord of all within!

THE summer sun shone round me,
The folded valley lay
In a stream of sun and odour,
That sultry summer day.
The tall trees stood in the sunlight
As still as still could be,
But the deep grass sighed and rustled
And bowed and beckoned me.
The deep grass moved and whispered
And bowed and brushed my face.
It whispered in the sunshine:
"The winter comes apace."

152
The Sun kept stooping—stooping—low!
The Hills to meet him rose!
On his side, what Transaction!
On their side, what Repose!
Deeper and deeper grew the stain
Upon the window pane—
Thicker and thicker stood the feet
Until the Tyrian
Was crowded dense with Armies—
So gay, so Brigadier—
That I felt martial stirrings
Who once the Cockade wore—
Charged from my chimney corner—
But Nobody was there!

An ingenuity too astonishing
to be quite fortuitous is
this bog full of sundews, sphagnum-
lines and shaped like a teacup.
A step
down and you're into it; a
wilderness swallows you up:
ankle-, then knee-, then midriff-
to-shoulder-deep in wetfooted
understory, an overhead
spruce-tamarack horizon hinting
you'll never get out of here.
But the sun
among the sundews, down there,
is so bright, an underfoot
webwork of carnivorous rubies,
a star-swarm thick as the gnats
they're set to catch, delectable
double-faced cockleburs, each
hair-tip a sticky mirror
afire with sunlight, a million
of them and again a million,
each mirror a trap set to
unhand believing,
that either
a First Cause said once, 'Let there
be sundews,' and there were, or they've
made their way here unaided
other than by that backhand, round-
about refusal to assume responsibility
known as Natural Selection.
But the sun
underfoot is so dazzling
down there among the sundews,
there is so much light
in that cup that, looking,
you start to fall upward.

Swimming against the current requires skill and practice;
If one is sent on a mission as representative of a novice,
It's like swimming on unknown water by saying something
Unknown to the inquirer who can't question anything further!
Knowing the situation, matter and forming an idea, one can
Deal with the new situation and return home by intelligence;
This is how a wise fellow can manage oneself against odd
Situation to the surprise of a novice who has sent one out!
A person of such an ability can survive anywhere in the world
Knowing unknown matter using general knowledge, presence of
Mind and common sense with the skill of some popular languages
To make all interesting by one's expression of matter new ever!
A poet is also a person of that calibre only as one cannot know
Till beginning of poem what one has to say and how one has to
Finish matter better for the interesting seeker of new knowledge
Until one has ended it well to the satisfaction of oneself and all!

春日放鹅河上游
出句：
春日放鹅河上游【不正师太】
对句：
冬天赏 雪风中过【不正师太】
闲时怜柳眼中过【随玉而安】
秋云追月风中散【久牛2011】

In Utopia, fools in swimming pools
Fall in and out of love
Because love belongs to bulls
Whose motivation is self satisfaction far above
Any sacrifice, any price, any advice
Given or driven by relationship advisers
Whose task in a mask or flask twice or thrice
Consists of coordinated commotion which Texan trousers
Regard without any potential placard
As fully fruitless because players
Draw damsel dividends and shoo away any simcard
They misuse to become heart slayers
Once a chance for a glance or dance is over
For a fool in wool to feel cool
That he has conquered a lover with a clover
Service in a sentimental swimming cesspool.

A Swimmer swims one stroke at a time
Focusing all ones energy, on the finish line.
They try so hard, to keep up the pace
Eyes affixed only, on just winning the race.
God sees us swim as we stroke along
Through every prayer, we pray.
To start our mornings and end our nights
He wouldn’t have it any other way.
To focus on Heavens’ finish line
To walk the walk
Trying not to lag behind.
But if you do and seem to fall short
God is there for you
To help steer us back on course.

Oh Death I am a coward
You drink an old man’s blood
So ruthless in your power
You drown us in your flood.
You leave some lonely standing
Upon the shore of life;
My request (I’m not demanding)
Take me before my wife.
But to see her lonely weeping
O'er the shadow in my bier;
Oh Death I would curse heaven
In my agony, I fear.

Swimming is fun
you can swim in the sun
Yes swimming is fun.
You can swim at night
Even though you may just
Need a little bit of light.
You can can swim with a friend
To keep a good trend
Just swim with a friend.
When you need help
Look for a lifeguard
They can always help.
Now go ahead go swimming
Go enjoy the water
Because swimming is fun.

Tourist Hotel´s Pool
The swimming pool at the hotel is empty
guests are having supper.
On limpid water two big yellow balls float
asleep after being thrown about all day.
Around the pool deep green artificial grass,
and a ditto tree that sheds no leaf.
Nature has been recreated.
No fish will ever swim in a pool that has
blue tiles at its bottom to pretend
to be the real sea that is a few miles away.
Except for insecticide and chlorine there is
no aroma other than the smell of nothing.
so sterile, so insipid, so dead.
But wait, a young couple might swim here
late at night, make love and their juices might
mingle, bring a renewal, to this oasis of sterility.
But perhaps not, I see a sign telling bathers:
“Smile you are on camera.”

when the meaning of water
ceases to be fluid
one fish swims with the rage of the river
looking for sharp stones
to tear off its fins
looking for  a crazy fisherman
to catch it
hook, like and sinker

I went with them to the fishing hole,
Way back yonder in the back of the woods, .
Two girl's
without boyfriend's, they'd never even kissed.
Look at the lips of her mom,
Leaving with them, I asked her, with lips like
those, I wanna know where your taking me fishing.
He grinned and then said, Let's go fishing.
Each time it rains, it washes both holes out and
sometimes the fish are easier to see and catch.

At Rajputana, in a religious meet
Swamiji came to participate,
But none cared for his rest,
Or for his food at least.
A poor low caste man
Gave him with hesitation
Some uncooked food
As cooked one was prohibited.
As he was an untouchable,
The high class people,
Kept him at a distance
In all the functions.
Taking pity on him,
Swamiji then told him
“Bring your cooked food,
For me, it’s good.”
On seeing his kindness,
The poor man shed tears,
And gave him cooked meal,
That, in fact, tasted well
Swamiji felt, “The poor people
Who’re so good and simple,
Live in huts as untouchables.
And such people, we despise.”
For many days, with no food,
At some places, he remained.
He stayed then with sweepers
Who were treated as outcastes.
They were very simple,
As well as more humble,
And possessed many virtues
Of true spiritual values.
Many times, Swamiji wept.
“Why such men are kept
At the feet of our society
Without any kind of mercy? ”
For them, Swamiji prayed,
Wherever he had stayed,
For their speedy deliverance
From this unpardonable injustice.

Accumulated humanity
Blended with hi-power beauracracy
Education for rural locality
Cordiality and honesty
Sincerarity policy
Also with royality
To enhance healing poverty
Being flexibality exemplifing administrative quality
We prey you sir, you may attain Nibbana.
Teachers and students, staff of Departments of Education Uva Province srilanka.Zonal Education office Badulla.
Untimely death of Badulla Srilanka Zonal Director of Education A.R.Ramanayaka.

If you want my sympathy for him
You won’t get it from me
He made my life hell at work
Why should I give my sympathy or respect for him if he doesn’t have any?
I am afraid that you must be dreaming?
I don’t miss that place
Two years ago it was paradise
And I was proud of this place
Not today anymore
Today it is hell

People depend on it,
they always run with it,
they always have to run with it,
they hope it would stop or slow down or run fast,
they always carry it with them,
they always look at it,
but...
it never stops for anyone,
it moves round and round in one direction,
it has three good friends in it who never fight,
the worlds depends on it...
THE CLOCK!

Just as David found
himself to be
spiritually parched
and in need of
direction, so saints
down through centuries
of time, have turned
to these words to
bring solace,
sympathy, healing,
and hope in this
broken world system.
(Ref: Psalm 23
of The Holy Bible)

Some stay stuck in ruts.
Never able to pull themselves up and out.
Holding onto a stubbornness,
And expecting to be forgiven.
Or given the attention...
From those who have chosen to move on.
And this upsets,
The ones who feel neglected.
The ones who expect...
An empathy they wish to receive.
But do not get.
Since a sympathy is not given,
To the ones who self inflict themselves to bleed!

In all sincerity
It is a pathetic pity
I merely offer sympathy
With such velocity
This sadness born out of the blue
That decides to levy itself on you
In your fixed stillness
I sense your illness
Accept my sympathy
You lost a pet
Somebody made you upset
Accept my sympathy
You lost a friend
Your broken heart is yet to mend
Accept my sympathy
You were once abused
Possibly at times wrongly accused
Accept my sympathy
You marriage is on the rocks
You got divorced, left without a buck
Accept my sympathy
You lost a fortune
Your voice can’t sing a decent tune
Accept my sympathy
You lost in love or lost your job
Or perhaps at one stage got robbed
Accept my sympathy
Your life is a mess
Everything around you depresses
Whatever the circumstances
Accept my sympathy
And if I happen to show no sympathy
Please accept my sympathy!

My Muse is simple,--yet it's nice
To think you don't need to think twice
On words I write.
I reckon I've a common touch
And if you say I cuss too much
I answer: 'Quite!'
I envy not the poet's lot;
He has something I haven't got,
Alas, I know.
But I have something maybe he
Would envy just a mite in me,--
I'm rather low.
For I am cast of common clay,
And from a ditch I fought my way,
And that is why
The while the poet scans the skies,
My gaze is grimly gutterwise,
Earthy am I.
And yet I have a gift, perhaps
Denied to proud poetic chaps
Who scoff at me;
I know the hearts of humble folk;
I too have bowed beneath the yoke:
So let my verse for them evoke
Your sympathy.

A Tanka Prose
Abandoned by a coyote with a forked tongue, we are as forlorn as orphaned children lost in Arizona desert. When you stand in front of me, looking into my eyes, what do you know of the grief in my heart? And what do I know of yours?
this windy night
descends with snowfall...
a child migrant's life
merely the dash
between illegible dates

I am a man,
I need your sympathy, your affection
The most,
Nothing else
But your love,
A few words of sympathy and affection
Which I need them most.

A new day to face many eyes,
Such inquisitive look  never lies,
The brain increases in sight,
Cracking almost to its size,
To address these minds,
To let them believe their not blinds,
To the wits I transfer in their kinds.
I lost my goal and find no more,
To reason is not a solution,
I found no trace to turn my track,
They carry me from the start,
Out  form the destiny I plot,
I struggle myself to stood still,
Clang my feet to where I stood.
A force to full me down seemed increased.
The glaring  sight of co- teachers move,
Commanding  them to pull me hard,
Shocked shaken me to the truth,
A snakes emerged even in the town,
Where concrete pathways ever exist.
The  more I wounded the more I was braver,
The scenario turned into a showdown,
A learner flashed a glaring knife,
My womb was the target of sharpness,
I closed my eyes to subdue to God,
Pray a little and asked salvation,
to Him I submit everything.
As the flying sharpness come near,
I saw the darkness overtook me,
I shouted unintimidating voice,
To melt the fire of burning desire,
Those co teachers dropped  their lids,
As the knife dropped,
So did their joy of seeing me free,
A lesson I ponder before
And I ponder more and more,
to water me into the field of
A good teacher to live forever.

teacher o so wise all do cry of the
bounty sweet words flowing ever
from your lips.
teacher of the bright lights in Brazil
such students are thrilled by
your love of them.
teacher so skilled wayward the
path you haven chosen
to share.
teacher high in canopy tops from
the winds your hand does hold
the keys for tomorrow.
Teacher, its me now, I am full of you,
still you must teach me more, I wait..

You know your true friend when you are in most need
For like 'tis said such a friend is a friend indeed
One who stands by you when you are feeling down
A cash strapped and depressed poor soul of the town
'Tis when you are most in need your friend you come to know
You ask one you thought was a good mate for a small loan his answer to you no
One who is not short of money of which you are aware
Yet a ten dollar note for you he could not spare
Yet a person you did not know well one you had met a few times before
Gave you the ten dollars and asked did you need more
That this person is your friend you've come to realize
In life every day there is some new surprise
In retrospect in years from now you will recall
That those you thought were your friends not your friends after all
A lesson for us to be learned from life every day
Life is a great teacher it does seem that way.

Each one has an important part
They guided us all the way
Each one has a place in my heart
For being there each day
Good role models to everyone
You never stopped believing
When we're sorry for what we've done
They are always so forgiving
When there's something we can't understand
They never stopped trying
Always ready to lend a hand
To help keep us from falling
Thank you teachers, you're always there
Every time I needed a friend
I enjoy the moments we share
I hope our moments would never end
Dear teachers, so sweet and kind
Look how fast the time has fly
Teachers like you I shall never find
But I will never say goodbye

It is the colour of seven threaded in one;
As that of a free silk gown, before the eyes of poor!
It is a greeting to earth through clouds;
With its curved eyebrow!
It is the art and tact of nature;
Where it can't be learnt by any other means!
It is the anchor to give us the happiness;
That can be dissolved neither in air nor in water!
It is adorned in the sky to show us;
The path of nature and its divine silence!
It is the jewel made up of haze;
To welcome the guest- rainfall!
It is a boon, given to us;
For the long penance of our eyes!
It is the wonder, pointed out in a single finger;
Whenever we peep above the sky!
It is the garland from heaven's holy fairies;
To destroy the disparity among men!
It is a glorious gift from nature;
For it appears the same to everyone!

'That will teach you! '
He learnt how to
hit his wife
from his Dad
who hit his
and his Dad his.
And his mother hit him
glad this time not to be the victim.
Whether it be fist in face
knee in belly
or the bitter welt from a belt
violence sleeps quitely
and dreams
of the people it will
come alive in.
All down the years
it mutates from person to person
face to face
not paying attention
to gender or age
or who hits who or why
as long as there is someone
to cry
'....no...please! '
And there is no one to hear
you screaming.

I  bumped into my grandson's English teacher yesterday
at the football, and in between shouting like teenagers
I moaned about the state of A's Eng. Lit. not to mention Eng. Lang. -
you know, you've heard it all before... in my day.....never regretted....
he agreed, but said go easy on the lad he's only thirteen
they all want to be fifteen and grown up at that age,
they can't be seen by their peer-group to be 'for' anything too much
so they ridicule everything, it's either pretentious crap if it's modern
or stupid ancient crap if it's more than a generation ago...
they even call Shakespeare a sad loser until
someone says he wrote the screenplay for that film
though they're fascinated by the idea that Marlowe
was a spy as well as a crap writer not that they've read him anyway
but you know what he said
put them up on stage in the annual Shakespeare and make them
speak his lines, and they'll never forget it,
they'll not say anything about it to me except in private but
they'll remember it to their dying day it's things like that
he said that keep me in this bloody job.

The child is ahead of me,
he is jogging faster than me.
But why he is turning back and looking at me?
I love his half eyes on me.
Is like me he is also recollecting the past
when running faster than him
I had been ahead of him,
and I used to turn back my half eyes
looking at the child behind.
I am now waiting when the child learns
to be loving and kind
to the weaker.
I am sure soon he will be jogging like waves
besides decelerating his speed
and the grandfather will overtake his grandchild.
The teacher is confident this jogging will end in a caress.
He is my student bless him my God, bless!
Bless us with a golden moment
when the student becomes a teacher of his teacher!

i am taught well,
now my hands won't swell,
cause i have learned,
from you my dear teacher,
you entertained me,
and educated me,
all i want is your love and care,
without them i cant bear,
well, some people always thought that you were wrong,
cause they were no students but a gang,
you can tell what is best,
and you loves us to have funny fest,
could that be any better?
without my second parent?
i always loved you,
in return you taught me,
i thank you with all my might,
although i am afraid that you are going to be out of sight,
but your love and kindness,
will always be in my heart with thank fullness,
i just want to say,
Happy teachers' day! ,
for this is your day,
and you can do any thing today,
don't forget me miss,
and be always abliss,
you are the one and only teacher,
that i always loves FOREVER! ! ! !

have roamed in this site
have caressed  got comforted
by words of many

I asked Allah for strenght, that I might achieve I was so week, that i might learn humbly to obey.. I asked for health, that I might I might do better things...
I asked for riches, that I might be happy I was given poverty, that I might be wise... I ask for power, that I might have the praise of men
I was given weakness, that I might feel the need me Allah..
I asked for all things, that I might enjoy life I was given life, that I might enjoy all things..
I got nothing that I asked for but everything I had hope for.
Almost despite myself, my unspoken prayers were answered.
I am among all who most richly blessed!

It is a good feeling
when you help someone in distress,
impart on them the knowledge
that you have gained.
You feel a great satisfaction
and no thanks is needed.
You are doing something
we should all do at times,
holding out our hand and helping another.
Each of us has been given a gift
and it is how we use that gift
which is the important thing.
If we use that gift
to import happiness into someone’s life
making them feel better within themselves.
How wonderful we feel
whenever they smile with satisfaction
knowing they have done something
to make a dream come true.
We need no thanks for this,
as it is what everyone should do.
Holding out a helping hand
no matter how far it has to stretch
and we can then rest on these words.
Do onto others, as you would
have them do onto you.
7 January 2008

Thanks a Lot, Mom
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for loving me to no end.
Thanks for being my loving mother.
Thanks for being my thoughtful friend.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for feeding me and giving me a home.
Thanks for clothing me and holding me tight.
Thanks for caring when I felt alone.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for always making me smile.
Thanks for giving me the extra push.
Thanks for going that extra mile.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for living with no regrets.
Thanks for being the life of the party.
Thanks for going all in on bets.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for being my inspiration.
Thanks for helping me with my homework.
Thanks for giving me motivation.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for treating me with respect.
Thanks for knowing I'm growing up.
Thanks for knowing what to expect.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for kicking me while I was down.
Thanks for telling me I'm a liar.
Thanks for knowing what comes around.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for giving me my many scars.
Thanks for making me feel at home.
Thanks for breaking my aching heart.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for taking away my friends.
Thanks for taking away my family.
Thanks for not having to pretend.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for kicking me out of my home.
Thanks for calling me cheap and attention-seeking.
Thanks for putting me out on my own.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for ripping away my Brett.
Thanks for saying you don't remember.
Thanks for saying I should forget.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for believing your husband over your kid.
Thanks for rewarding him for a crime.
Thanks for punishing me for what he did.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for meeting me in court.
Thanks for hiring such a mean lawyer.
Thanks for paying for his every retort.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for going on the witness stand.
Thanks for putting all that on file.
Thanks for not holding my shaking hand.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for watching me cry over you.
Thanks for everything you did to me.
Thanks for everything you didn't do.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for letting me take the fall.
Thanks for telling me to lie for you.
Thanks for letting me lose it all.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for saying no one will believe me.
Thanks for telling me you'll always be there.
Thanks for lying, and screaming, and leaving.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for still wearing your pretty smile.
Thanks for not letting anyone know.
Thanks for going that extra mile.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for letting Brett go without her sis.
Thanks for not showing her my picture.
Thanks for all the memories you know I'll miss.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for letting me have a choice.
Thanks for giving me an ultimatum.
Thanks for never hearing my voice.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for all the inspiration.
Thanks for all the things you've caused.
Thanks for all this motivation.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for giving me something to do.
Thanks to all these heart-wrenching memories.
But most of all, thanks to you.
Now when I'm cutting my wrists in the bathroom,
Or getting pregnant at my prom,
I'll always remember who I should thank.
So thanks a lot, Mom.
When I'm running around being promiscuous,
Like you always thought I would become,
I'll always remember who I should thank.
So thanks a lot, Mom.
When I'm drinking myself to death,
Or when I'm lighting up my bong,
I'll always remember who I should thank.
So thanks a lot, Mom.
When I'm broke and on the street
Or when I'm writing a suicide note like a song,
I'll always remember who I should thank.
Yeah, thanks a lot, Mom.

You know how when there’s a disaster where a bunch of
people are killed and the one guy who survives thanks God?
I think that’s a pretty screwed up perspective on the situation.
I know he’s happy to be alive, but if anything, he should be
cursing God for letting everyone else perish.
Now, why did God save this one guy’s sorry ass? Because the
guy went to church and prayed? I’m sure some of those folks
who perished did that too.
I know what you’re going to say – that it’s all part of God’s
mysterious plan. What an ignorant explanation that is!
And it’s not even an explanation.
I suppose Hitler was part of God’s plan too? And what about
Michael Bolton? Was it God’s plan to make that talentless hack
a superstar? Now that I think of it, maybe it was God himself
who went out and bought up all those CDs in order to
artificially run Bolton up the charts. If that’s the case, then it’s
true that God has a very mysterious plan. But at least he has a
sense of humor.

thanks for making me comfortable.
on my first day at hospital.
thanks for standing like a friend,
when i felt lone and when my hope was about end.
thanks for giving me courage,
when i felt weak and scared.
thanks for wiping my tears.
when i cried just before surgery,
as i was filled with all fears.
thanks for taking care of my life,
when i felt that i am about to die.
thanks for the help you lent,
when i was helpless like an infant.
thanks for all the cleaning and feeding,
when like a cripple i was lying.
thanks for treating me with a smile.
when i cried and even turned bile.
thanks for supporting me, when i was abate.
thanks for standing by my side, when i slept late.
thanks for all your help,
during the times when i tired to take care of myself.
thanks for making me smile again.
and making me realize the pain was not in vain..
thanks for listening, when i wanted to talk.
thanks for encouraging, when i started to walk.
i have no words.i have no ways.
just want to let you know.
i will be grateful always.

Thank you,
Thanks for looking after me
Thanks for having someone to look upto and admire
Thanks for giving me time
Thanks for giving me space
Thanks for giving me advice
Thanks for making me laugh
Thanks for making me cry
Thanks for making me sing
Thanks for making me sigh
Thanks for giving me everything you can
Thank you

Thanks to the native Indians,
Who saved those arriving in ill health
And disease.
As they traveled and arrived from the South,
To bear the blunt of the cold...
On the East Coast.
Even though history will not dare,
To reveal the truth.
Let those aware of your sacrifices...
Declare to you our thanks,
As we worship in our prayers.
With blessings to you,
On this Thanksgiving Day!

WE THRIVE THANKS TO THE BEAUTY
We thrive thanks to the Beauty
Of Small Acts of Kindness,
Which each day save us
From the Ugliness
Of being only for ourselves.

A time to laugh, a time to cry,
A time to love, a time to sigh.
The love we feel is put in us to stay,
Love will make us stronger each and every
day.
A time to fear, a time to learn.
A time to trust, a time for concern.
The love we feel is real and pure,
Love is the answer and sometimes the cure.
A time for planting, a time to grow,
A time for knowledge of the important things
we must know.
Love is you love is me.
We are one and always will be.
My love for my fellow man, will never grow
dim,
I'll trust, I'll laugh and at times I'll
cry with him.
Now I know why love is put in me to stay,
For real love is not love until you give
it away.

I had no time to hate, because
The grave would hinder me,
And life was not so ample I
Could finish enmity.
Nor had I time to love, but since
Some industry must be,
The little toil of love, I thought,
Was large enough for me.

Distanced by dreams,
of yesteryears life,
Days come and go,
like a waves short life.
Hours slip through thoughts,
As sand slips through fingers.
I wish the world would slow.
Time to think and plan for tommorow.
As eyes succumb to the weight of the night,
Morning emerges with it's sharp light.
Days drift into new days,
each one a stage of plays.
There is no time to look and to love,
Faces flash by with eyes to the ground,
I am not hereI make no sound.

How soon hath Time, the subtle thief of youth,
Stoln on his wing my three and twentieth year!
My hasting days fly on wtih full career,
But my late spring no bud or blossom shew'th.
Perhaps my semblance might deceive the truth,
That I to manhood am arrived so near,
And inward ripeness doth much less appear,
That some more timely-happy spirits endu'th.
Yet be it less or more, or soon or slow,
It shall be still in strictest measure even
To that same lot, however mean or high,
Toward which Time leads me, and the will of Heaven;
All is, if I have grace to use it so,
As ever in my great Taskmaster's eye.

Night closed my windows and
The sky became a crystal house
The crystal windows glowed
The moon
shown through them
through the whole house of crystal
A single star beamed down
its crystal cable
and drew a plough through the earth
unearthing bodies clasped together
couples embracing
around the earth
They clung together everywhere
emitting small cries
that did not reach the stars
The crystal earth turned
and the bodies with it
And the sky did not turn
nor the stars with it
The stars remained fixed
each with its crystal cable
beamed to earth
each attached to the immense plough
furrowing our lives

jail time, heroin time,
back alley shuffle time,
standing in the soup line time....
sleeping in old cars time,
day work, selling blood time,
lost your job, no work time,
lost your house, nowhere time....
get your school in prison time,
radical free thought time,
fighting against the man time...
bum a smoke, a cup of coffee time.
woman done gone, aint coming back time.
food stamps and unemployment time...
kick off your damn chains time.
forgive, and forgiven time...
stand up and fight time,
hands joining hands time...
time, baby... just time!

On the wide level of a mountain's head,
(I knew not where, but 'twas some faery place)
Their pinions, ostrich-like, for sails out-spread,
Two lovely children run an endless race,
A sister and a brother !
This far outstripp'd the other ;
Yet ever runs she with reverted face,
And looks and listens for the boy behind :
[Image] For he, alas ! is blind !
O'er rough and smooth with even step he passed,
And knows not whether he be first or last.

While fates permit us, let's be merry;
Pass all we must the fatal ferry;
And this our life, too, whirls away,
With the rotation of the day.

Was there a time when dancers with their fiddles
In children's circuses could stay their troubles?
There was a time they could cry over books,
But time has sent its maggot on their track.
Under the arc of the sky they are unsafe.
What's never known is safest in this life.
Under the skysigns they who have no arms
have cleanest hands, and, as the heartless ghost
Alone's unhurt, so the blind man sees best.

They came from the lower levels
Deep down in the Brilliant mine;
From the wastes where the whirlwind revels,
Whirling the leaves of pine.
On the western plains, where the Darling flows,
And the dust storms wheel and shift,
The teamster loosened his yokes and bows,
And turned his team adrift.
On the western stations, far and wide,
There's many an empty pen,
For the "ringers" have cast the machines aside
And answered the call for men.
On the lucerne flats where the stream runs slow,
And the Hunter finds the sea,
The women are driving the mowers now,
With the children at their knee.
For the men have gone, as a man must go,
At the call of the rolling drums;
For the men have sworn that the Turks shall know
When the old battalion comes.
Column of companies by the right,
Steady in strong array,
With the sun on the bayonets gleaming bright,
The battalion marched away.
They battled, the old battalion,
Through the toil of the training camps,
Sweated and strove at lectures,
By the light of the stinking lamps.
Marching, shooting, and drilling;
Steady and slow and stern;
Awkward and strange, but willing
All of their job to learn.
Learning to use the rifle;
Learning to use the spade;
Deeming fatigue a trifle
During each long parade.
Till at last they welded
Into a concrete whole,
And there grew in the old battalion
A kind of battalion's soul.
Brotherhood never was like it;
Friendship is not the word;
But deep in that body of marching men
The soul of a nation stirred.
And like one man with a single thought
Cheery and confident;
Ready for all that the future brought,
The old battalion went.
Column of companies by the right,
Steady in strong array,
With the sun on the bayonets gleaming bright,
The battalion marched away.
How shall we tell of the landing
By the hills where the foe were spread,
And the track of the old battalion
Was marked by the Turkish dead?
With the dash that discipline teaches,
Though the hail of the shrapnel flew,
And the forts were raking the beaches,
And the toll of the dead men grew.
They fixed their grip on the gaunt hillside
With a pluck that has won them fame;
And the home-folks know that the dead men died
For the pride of Australia's name.
Column of companies by the right,
To the beat of the rolling drums;
With honours gained in a stirring fight
The old battalion comes!

Our ride
Through life
Is short
At best
Choices made
Do count
Moments lived
Savored
Memories made
Golden
Embraced in
The gilded
Frames of time
Honored vestiges
Of Era's of
Yesterday
And today
That are too
Soon gone
Reflections play
Like the waters
Still but forever
Deep mirror's
Of the Soul

If Jesus was born today
it would be in a downtown motel
marked by a helicopter's flashing bulb.
A traffic warden, working late,
would be the first upon the scene.
Later, at the expense of a TV network,
an eminent sociologist,
the host of a chat show
and a controversial author
would arrive with their good wishes
-the whole occasion to be filmed as part of the
'Is This The Son Of God?' one hour special.
Childhood would be a blur of photographs and speculation
dwindling by his late teens into
'Where Is He Now?' features in Sunday magazines.
If Jesus was thirty today
they wouldn't really care about the public ministry,
they'd be too busy investigating His finances
and trying to prove He had Church or Mafia connections.
The miracles would be explained by
an eminent and controversial magician,
His claims to be God's Son recognised as
excellent examples of Spoken English
and immediately incorporated into
the O-Level syllabus,
His sinless perfection considered by moral philosophers
as, OK, but a bit repressive.
If Jesus was thirty-one today
He'd be the fly in everyone's ointment-
the sort of controversial person who
stands no chance of eminence.
Communists would expel Him, capitalists
would exploit Him or have Him
smeared by people who know a thing or two about God.
Doctors would accuse Him of quackery,
soldiers would accuse Him of cowardice,
theologians would take Him aside and try
to persuade Him of His non-existence.
If Jesus was thirty-two today we'd have to
end it all. Heretic, fundamentalist, literalist,
puritan, pacifist, non-conformist, we'd take Him
away and quietly end the argument.
But the argument would rumble in the ground
at the end of three days and would break out
and walk around as though death was some bug,
saying 'I am the resurrection and the life...
No man cometh to the Father but by me'.
While the magicians researched new explanations
and the semanticists wondered exactly what
He meant by 'I' and 'No man' there would be those
who stand around amused, asking for something
called proof.

Small joys adorned my life.
Flowers against the wind
gave life to the loneliness of my soul.
I wait for my tomorow to come
Lost inside my today.

The world I live in is not good at all;
I rarely find a human being good;
There isn’t a righteous one whom I can call;
The majority lives in evil-hood.
There is no one whom I can depend on;
The place abounds in ‘snakes and jackals’ much;
They move so stealthily by dusk and dawn;
For time being, they have a ‘Midas-touch’!
But things will change for good I do believe;
The evil ones will reap their punishment;
The world and God, one cannot long deceive;
God will usher the day of His Judgment!
And must I lead a file of men with masks?
My precious time is meant for better tasks!
Copyright by Dr John Celes 7-23-2006

lonely as a dry and used orchard
spread over the earth
for use and surrender.
shot down like an ex-pug selling
dailies on the corner.
taken by tears like
an aging chorus girl
who has gotten her last check.
a hanky is in order your lord your
worship.
the blackbirds are rough today
like
ingrown toenails
in an overnight
jail---
wine wine whine,
the blackbirds run around and
fly around
harping about
Spanish melodies and bones.
and everywhere is
nowhere---
the dream is as bad as
flapjacks and flat tires:
why do we go on
with our minds and
pockets full of
dust
like a bad boy just out of
school---
you tell
me,
you who were a hero in some
revolution
you who teach children
you who drink with calmness
you who own large homes
and walk in gardens
you who have killed a man and own a
beautiful wife
you tell me
why I am on fire like old dry
garbage.
we might surely have some interesting
correspondence.
it will keep the mailman busy.
and the butterflies and ants and bridges and
cemeteries
the rocket-makers and dogs and garage mechanics
will still go on a
while
until we run out of stamps
and/or
ideas.
don't be ashamed of
anything; I guess God meant it all
like
locks on
doors.

Today was the day everything went on its way
progress in love, work and Religion what a day
Is that out of your love God or a hole in my whole
life is unfaithful, ungrateful so I learned after all
Let me live that moment
smile and see the latent
when everything smiles to you
you are no longer one but two
so stop here tell me
why Have you chosen me?
Am I No longer Sara
known to be Hera
Amazing why You why you
when all I love, you did not do
you said an order from above
yeah when a caller called for love
will I leave my castle
descend on a fossil
so weird so clumsy
I in this world Have mercy!
for a man I loved not
yet for him I invest all my lot
struggle, fear, tear and despair
all are gone and will flare
For I will live to make him face
tribulations that stake, he will trace
all my torments and take them away
thus, we will begin our new furnished way

Today
My alarm clock failed to ring
Today
Yoo-Hoo, The clock did not sing
Today
The trains made me get to work late
I was left staring at their shut gates
Today
I found myself exceedingly alone
Shivering in the flat cold to the bone
Today
My lover called and I got ditched
I really thought we’re going to get hitched
Today
I stank dreadfully; I did not have a shower
The sad news drained me of my will power
Today
I counted my pennies in twos and fours
My pockets were empty and poor
All the food I ate was bitter and sour
Today
All the programmes on TV were boring
Repetitious episodes had been reoccurring
I couldn’t go out as the rain was pouring
Today
In-between my thighs, I kept feeling horny
That tingly-tingly feel was not at all funny
Today
I read the newspaper without focus
Wondering what was the entire fuss
About sleeping with one’s boss
A whole page dedicated to it, was the loss
Today
I listened to some sad love songs
Speculating where I had done wrong
Next time, yes! I am going to be strong
Today
I fantasised about my next affair
Detailing it in my head with care
Another tragedy I simply cannot bear
Today
I sang, spoke and smiled
Whilst I had my nails filed
Today
I made positive future plans
I am my own number one fan
Of many visions, I am the woman!
Also by definition, I am the woman!
Today
I passed life’s challenge
Having my hearty revenge
I went off to bed felicitous
Every today is always joyous!
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi

What a wild wind today
in Wimbledon Park,
80 mph they say,
mischievous, shameless,
wild child, it cannot distinguish
between fun and destruction
here in the park
it does what it can with the boating lake;
but the ripples are barely waves,
and the boat club has wisely shored its boats,
no fun to be had there
but wait – here’s a woman with a covered pram
walking along the path beside the lake…
the crafty wind dies down, then
one huge gust – whew, that was a near one,
she’ll remember that next time..
now it’s spotted three laughing nuns – what fun!
it tries to lift their skirts – it knows no shame
in its innocent fun; it would most like
to turn them into whirling, spinning dervishes in black;
instead, it catches their veils, as they, laughing
as if they are being teased by their own sweet Lord,
as Krishna (would they know)  by milkmaids -
turn this way and that to avoid it;
they look like startled magpies, now like
laundry on the convent clothes-line;
it would love to make them into
divine helicopters
now it’s looking round the sports field;
the cricket ball’s too heavy, no fun there;
it does its best to be twelfth man
in a soccer game, but lacks the patience
to do more than bend it to the goal; it hasn't learnt
to pass, dribble, stepover, show off..
but now it spots the tennis courts and
uses all its thwarted bowler’s skill
to turn the service and return
to swing this way and that;
the teenage boy, eyes sparkling,
joins it in the fun, a double act,
wins point after point in this windy game;
a few scarved spectators cheer on his skill.
the wind is nature’s free testing kit;
it tries every tall tree in the park
to test their roots; and they perhaps
sending a fast intelligence from branch to root,
become a little stronger if they do not fall..
now it’s moving on to test the works of man –
no need to pay consultants’ fees
to check your roof tiles; the wind will do this
more thoroughly and for free..
and now it’s spotted laundry on the line
in the back garden – here’s its chance
to play at being a human being!
it loves most of all, men’s shirts –
fills their arms like sumo wrestlers,
hunches overblown backs
like a row of fat men bending over food
and now the sun comes out –
the wind is suddenly subdued
as if its master had just entered the cosmic room;
and I’m suddenly full of joy, as if
I had never known until now
that they might love each other, sun and wind,
for some reason which includes us all

My mommy told me an' the teacher told me, too,
There's all kinds of work that I can do:
Dry my dishes, sweep my floor,
But if we all work together it won't take very long.
We all work together with a wiggle and a giggle,
We all work together with a giggle and a grin.
We all work together with a wiggle and a giggle,
We all work together with a giggle and a grin.
My sister told me,
Brother told me, too,
Lots an' lotsa work
That I can do.
I can bring her candy.
Bring him gum.
But if we all work together
Hadn't oughtta take long. So
My daddy said,
And my grandpaw, too,
There's work, worka, work
For me to do.
I can paint my fence.
Mow my lawn.
But if we all work together,
Well, it shouldn't take long. So
I tell Mama an' Daddy,
Grampaw an' Granmaw, too,
I tell my sister an' my brother,
Lotsa work for you to do.
You can bring me pennie
And candy and gum;
But if we all work together
'Twon't take so very long. And so
We all work together with a wiggle and a giggle,
We all work together with a giggle and a grin.
We all work together with a wiggle and a giggle,
We all work together with a giggle and a grin.
With a wiggle and a giggle and a google and a goggle
And a jigger and a jagger and a giggle and a grin.

Let's go over the cliff together,
Holding hands, laughing.
It's over for us...
Except for Death.
You picked that awful blouse
At Penny's...never approved
Of your taste...
You knew it.
Laughed each time I made
A face...
You looked good in anything.
You knew it.
You smiled in memory...
Weren't they good
Weren't they happy...
The long hours of work.
I don't want to remember.
Went to your house one day.
You were talking funny,
Walking funny.
'Oh, I just feel bad.'
You liar! You damned liar!
We were Thelma and Louise.
You named us that...I had the
Convertible. You...no Time.
Let us go, hand in hand, into
The horizon. Always the West.
You always knew Sunsets
Always become Sunrises.
Let's go over the cliff together.
You always wanted to see God.
You'll not be seeing Him
For the first time.
God saw you...and kept you.
Goodbye, my friend.

I.
I said---Then, dearest, since 'tis so,
Since now at length my fate I know,
Since nothing all my love avails,
Since all, my life seemed meant for, fails,
Since this was written and needs must be---
My whole heart rises up to bless
Your name in pride and thankfulness!
Take back the hope you gave,---I claim
---Only a memory of the same,
---And this beside, if you will not blame,
Your leave for one more last ride with me.
II.
My mistress bent that brow of hers;
Those deep dark eyes where pride demurs
When pity would be softening through,
Fixed me, a breathing-while or two,
With life or death in the balance: right!
The blood replenished me again;
My last thought was at least not vain:
I and my mistress, side by side
Shall be together, breathe and ride,
So, one day more am I deified.
Who knows but the world may end tonight?
III.
Hush! if you saw some western cloud
All billowy-bosomed, over-bowed
By many benedictions---sun's
And moon's and evening-star's at once---
And so, you, looking and loving best,
Conscious grew, your passion drew
Cloud, sunset, moonrise, star-shine too,
Down on you, near and yet more near,
Till flesh must fade for heaven was here!---
Thus leant she and lingered---joy and fear!
Thus lay she a moment on my breast.
IV.
Then we began to ride. My soul
Smoothed itself out, a long-cramped scroll
Freshening and fluttering in the wind.
Past hopes already lay behind.
What need to strive with a life awry?
Had I said that, had I done this,
So might I gain, so might I miss.
Might she have loved me? just as well
She might have hated, who can tell!
Where had I been now if the worst befell?
And here we are riding, she and I.
V.
Fail I alone, in words and deeds?
Why, all men strive and who succeeds?
We rode; it seemed my spirit flew,
Saw other regions, cities new,
As the world rushed by on either side.
I thought,---All labour, yet no less
Bear up beneath their unsuccess.
Look at the end of work, contrast
The petty done, the undone vast,
This present of theirs with the hopeful past!
I hoped she would love me; here we ride.
VI.
What hand and brain went ever paired?
What heart alike conceived and dared?
What act proved all its thought had been?
What will but felt the fleshly screen?
We ride and I see her bosom heave.
There's many a crown for who can reach,
Ten lines, a statesman's life in each!
The flag stuck on a heap of bones,
A soldier's doing! what atones?
They scratch his name on the Abbey-stones.
My riding is better, by their leave.
VII.
What does it all mean, poet? Well,
Your brains beat into rhythm, you tell
What we felt only; you expressed
You hold things beautiful the best,
And pace them in rhyme so, side by side.
'Tis something, nay 'tis much: but then,
Have you yourself what's best for men?
Are you---poor, sick, old ere your time---
Nearer one whit your own sublime
Than we who never have turned a rhyme?
Sing, riding's a joy! For me, I ride.
VIII.
And you, great sculptor---so, you gave
A score of years to Art, her slave,
And that's your Venus, whence we turn
To yonder girl that fords the burn!
You acquiesce, and shall I repine?
What, man of music, you grown grey
With notes and nothing else to say,
Is this your sole praise from a friend,
``Greatly his opera's strains intend,
``Put in music we know how fashions end!''
I gave my youth; but we ride, in fine.
IX.
Who knows what's fit for us? Had fate
Proposed bliss here should sublimate
My being---had I signed the bond---
Still one must lead some life beyond,
Have a bliss to die with, dim-descried.
This foot once planted on the goal,
This glory-garland round my soul,
Could I descry such? Try and test!
I sink back shuddering from the quest.
Earth being so good, would heaven seem best?
Now, heaven and she are beyond this ride.
X.
And yet---she has not spoke so long!
What if heaven be that, fair and strong
At life's best, with our eyes upturned
Whither life's flower is first discerned,
We, fixed so, ever should so abide?
What if we still ride on, we two
With life for ever old yet new,
Changed not in kind but in degree,
The instant made eternity,---
And heaven just prove that I and she
Ride, ride together, for ever ride?

I am bored
With love
And it's passionless limbs
That drape over my bed
In a lethargic state of impotence
While wearing the same red heart
My soul picked up
Hitchhiking off highway
Now here we are
Alone in togetherness
Trying to build dreams
With two by fours
And glue
But even a home
Won't tie us together
When our hearts
Live alone
Poetic vows clinched
Into nothingness
Like all words do
Eventually
And we allowed
Our bodies
To become another pair
Of hollow shadows
That make love
To a wall
Instead of each other
And we wonder why
The roses are dying

Like a Captain and a Sinking Ship
Like a baby on Mamma's Tit
Like a SM Girl and her Whip
Or Crackers and Cheese Dip
Sticking Together like a Bird and it's Feather
Like a Biker and His Leather
Like a Girl and a Guy
Like Top-secret and a Spy
We should all stick Together
In all sorts of Weather
Like Mum and her Purse
For Better or Worse

That exciting moment was finally here, we didn't have to wait any more
It's a girl I heard the doctor say, the joy in my heart cannot be described
We held each other close as we cried with joy till we realized it was quiet
As we turned to look at the doctors they were looking at us in a sad way
I'm sorry to tell you this but your daughter has a few problems in her body
She probably won't live to be but a few days old if she makes it that long
I'm so sorry, but you can hold her for as long as you would like to for now
They said she didn't have any eyes and she would never be able to see
She didn't have a brain so her body wouldn't be able to function properly
These were only a few of the problems that my daughter was born with
We only had the joy of having her in our life for about one month
Then the Lord took her home so that he could make her whole
I can't wait until the day when I see the miracles that were performed
And I'll feel that joy all over again just like the day that she was born
But this time we'll be together forever in eternity never to face any tears

Under the moonlight
Together we'll lie
Held tightly in your arms
Together you and I
Alone
Together at last
How did I ever go on without you in my past
Each moment
Sweet kiss
I simply can't resist
Everytime you touch me
I feel comeplete
When our eyes meet
My hand is yours
Together
Walking along these shores
We're perfect for each other
A heavenly pair
We're just two people
Whose lives we can share

We
Are
All
Getting
Together
At
The
Church
For
Passover

Death is a horrible fate,
But in death everyone can relate.
Death is a tragedy,
But tragedy is what brings us together.

Call it a curse, call the thousand years a curse
these temples were made to last ten thousand years
but they now lie like a dream shattered
walls crumbled, even the roots of trees like pythons,
have wound their  way into the stone structures
holding them tightly but in fact breaking them apart
the trees now stand majestic as if celebrating the fact
that they had the temples down to its foundations
Call me Jayarvarman IV, or even better still
King Suryavarman (Sun Shield)       II
the builders of most of the wonders of Angkor
and in fact, to feel what i feel, just call me
a heart that has been trampled into a million pieces
like what you would see at many of Angkor ruins
they stand like exact curses of what
the once glorious god kings would
have percevied or feared them to become
the symbols of their power tore to mere desolate rubble
the coldness of each stone now freezes
one the fashion of a virgin's loneliness
a virgin still  in the emotional throes of
losing her childhood love to another woman
and please do not even laugh here
for the echoes that richocet back  are
even more unbearable -
they storm at a heart as if it has been
emptied of all its ambitions
a disillusioned soul in the bleakness
of the worst rain
the Bayon, the king still looks into the sky
into so many ways, directions
reminiscent of his great days
a disconsolate  longing
permeates the evening winds
and the dusk light throws a a melancholic
silhouette over the erroded flooring
evoking a futile longing to call back the old days
to distil the curse of time and nature's wrath
every visitor who visits the Angkor
cannot help but be possessed by the
disillusioned souls of these great kings
and sighs; 'It was such a great great
kingdom then. Every fallen stone
has to be an ache to the great heart
of those god kings, even now.'

What a thrill it is to travel
Perhaps in a different country
The cultures incredibly diverse
So many wonderful things to see
The clothes can be so different
Unique in their treasured styles
An entirely distinctive kind of people
With their friendly happy smiles
And the food can be quite challenging
Different tastes and how they eat
But, hey, I’m ready to try it
Doesn’t have to be potatoes and meat
Different ways and thoughts of worship
It is such an international treat
To see the different cultures
And all the interesting folks you meet
So if you get a chance, folks
Get on a plane or cruising ship
Take yourself to another country
Have a great and wonderful trip!

Botswana's Okavango Delta
a baby elephant trumpets
the joy of salvation
Botswana's Okavango
elephant's cry
echoes through the plain
Elephant Back Safaris' Abu Camp in Botswana's Okavango Delta, welcomed a new baby elephant named Lorato, which translates to 'love.' Lorato spends her days following her mother, Kitimetse, on her daily mud baths and alongside her wanderings through the 500,000-acre area. Abu Camp researchers are observing Lorato as she develops, collecting data to further their work towards implementing a country-wide elephant conservation program.

Ibiza's summer
here comes a tidal wave
of clubbers
Ibiza's summer
winds and beaches could not
cool down our spirits
With summer just around the corner, partiers flock to Ibiza, the clubbing capital of the world, for its legendary Opening Parties. All of the Balearic Island's biggest clubs—like Privilege, the largest club in the world with a capacity of 10,000—throw huge bashes from mid-May to late June to kick off the season. You can recover from the blaring techno and flashing strobe lights by strolling Ibiza's rustic old town, exploring its beautiful countryside on bike, or just by lounging on one of the island's dozens of beaches

Evans Pelican Inn
from a prewar beach house
a burst of spring  laughter
Evans Pelican Inn
a prewar beach house
seals our love for privacy
Pawleys Island
an entree to the day's adventure
a yummy southern breakfast
Spring is the time to visit South Carolina, when temperatures average between 68 and 83 degrees and humidity is low. Visit Pawleys Island, one of the country's oldest beach resorts, just south of the more crowded and developed Myrtle Beach. Stay at the Evans Pelican Inn, an antebellum beach house, and wake up to a Southern-style breakfast with biscuits, grits, and crab salad. Rent a bike and spend the day exploring this tiny barrier island or lay out on its four miles of beaches.

st paddy's day
dublin distills its best
into our spirits
As Saint Paddy's Day nears, what better time to check out the pubs, breweries, and distilleries of Ireland? Go to Guinness' James' Gate Storehouse in Dublin to see how the famous dark stout is brewed, the Hilden Brewery in Lisburn to sample real draft ales, or the Old Jameson Distillery in Dublin to taste triple-distilled Irish whiskey. You'll be sure to find friendly Irishmen (and women)  to share in a few pints and join in on some fun and lighthearted amusement—or, in a word, craic.

YYellowstone National Park
over the snow, echoes
of our own laughters
Yellowstone National Park
the various adventures
warm up our winter
Yellowstone National Park may not be the first winter destination that comes to mind, but it has a lot to offer. You'll quickly forget about the cold weather while snowmobiling, dog sledding, snowshoeing, ice skating, and viewing wildlife. Traveling in the colder months allows you to experience the park without the hordes of tourists that crowd the roads during summer. Get ready to have the stunning landscape practically to yourself.

singapore night safari
we go looking for lion
in the middle of city
singapore night safari
all of us longing to see
Sang Nila Utama's lion
(the man who saw the legendary
lion that resulted in singapore
named Singapura.)
singapore night safari
all the excited animals
told to keep quiet
singapore night safari
the excited animals
look for animals
singapore night safari
one excited animal forgot
the no flash ruling
The Singapore Night Safari take you through stretches of forest at the Singapore zoo where you can see nocturnal animals roaming about in the natural habitat. there are bearded pigs, sang kancil, hipopotamus, deers, tigers and lions. of course, the animals that could cause the most disturbance here are those with flashes and cameras. they had to be told repeatedly not to use flashes as that could cause the animals to become unruly, and heading for the flash.

Jim Thompson House
the house too
misses its owner
my eyes run up and down
left and right
for jim
Jim Thompson House
it is too waiting for
owner to be back
Jim Thompson House
this emptiness that
the owner will never be back
Jim Thompson House
despite the visitors
the loneness in  the house
jim thompson house visit
a bird's cheerful chirp
all is up and well for him
jim thompson house
that forboding giant tree
right in front of door
Jim Thompson a former CIA agent left all in America to live in Bangkok and helped promote Thai traditional silk and woven fabric
to the West in the 60s He built a beautiful traditional house in a secluded part of Bangkok which has become a tourist spot today.
It is stocked with plentiful of Thai as well as Burmese antique buddhas, paintings, ceramic as well as Chinese Blue and  White. Jim went missing when holidaying in the Cameron Highlands in Malaysia on March 26,1967. Nothing was found of him. He left behind a string of mysteries about his whereabouts. But one thing is for sure, his house in Bangkok is swarmed daily by tourists. Jim Thompson is now a popular brand in the fabric industry.

I do not allow
people
into my heart.
I do not trust them
to not
tear it all apart.
I do not trust
people
not to hurt or betray
me.
And so I protect
my heart
by locking the gate
and hiding the key.
In all of this mistrust
I can clearly see
That one I truly do not trust
is me.

Before this body turns to dust
Before this world I leave
Upon The Lord I’ve placed my trust
Upon The Rock I’ll cleave
I’ve placed my trust in Jesus Christ
God’s Son of flesh and bone
The innocent Lamb sacrificed
I trust His word alone
I trust He chose for man to die
Then rose again to reign
That as God’s Seed He’d multiply
His flock when born-again
I trust His blood can cleanse the soul
I trust His blood can save
His very name can make us whole
And save us from the grave
I trust in Jesus’ loving care
I trust He bore my shame
I trust the love He came to share
Remains today the same
I trust the pardon Jesus bought
Can save this wretch from hell
I trust Salvation’s true report
My Saviour had to tell
Although the devil’s out to harm
Though Satan’s he’s out to kill
I trust my Lord’s almighty arm
I trust His righteous will
I trust my life to Christ The Lord
I trust in Heaven’s Door
I trust in God’s Almighty Sword
I’ll trust Him evermore…

Bottomless pits.  There's on in Castleton,
and stout upholders of our law and order
one day thought its depth worth wagering on
and borrowed a convict hush-hush from his warder
and winched him down; and back, flayed, grey, mad, dumb.
Not even a good flogging made him holler!
O gentlemen, a better way to plumb
the depths of Britain's dangling a scholar,
say, here at the booming shaft at Towanroath,
now National Trust, a place where they got tin,
those gentlemen who silenced the men's oath
and killed the language that they swore it in.
The dumb go down in history and disappear
and not one gentleman's been brough to book:
Mes den hep tavas a-gollas y dyr
(Cornish-)
'the tongueless man gets his land took.'

"Trust love even if it brings sorrow.
Do not close up your heart."
"Ah no, my friend, your words are
dark, I cannot understand them."
"Pleasure is frail like a dewdrop,
while it laughs it dies. But sorrow is
strong and abiding. Let sorrowful
love wake in your eyes."
"Ah no, my friend, your words are
dark, I cannot understand them."
"The lotus blooms in the sight of
the sun, and loses all that it has. It
would not remain in bud in the
eternal winter mist."
"Ah no, my friend, your words are
dark, I cannot understand them."

trust in me
cause i know the pain
trust in me
cause i know the cold nights
trust in me
cause i know the lonliness
trust in me
cause i know my heart
trust in me
cause i know my soul
trust in me
cause i know what i give
trust in me
cause i know who i am
trust in me
cause i know what i want
trust in me
cause i know i can trust you! !

Why does your heart grow doubtful dear?
Tense and beating, full of fear.
I keep with me your everlasting love,
and bless the day God sent you from above.
You remain my angel and I feel that I must,
tell you that within you, you have my trust.
My love is the tide, your soul is the shores,
you have my heart, do I have yours?
I'll belong to you till the very end,
and you will forever stay as my lover and friend.
It has been so good like this from the start,
so darling please, trust me with your heart.

Trust, earned or lost
Do you have it from the beginning
Do you earn it
Does it take long
I think trust in earned and lost
It must never be questioned
For questioning trust is questioning your friend
If you have to question your friend did you ever really trust them to begin with
If trust is lost, will you ever get it back
Will you ever be close to that person again
Will you ever hear their secrets
How will it ever be the same
They might not ever fully trust you
I know how this feels
I have lost people’s trust many a time before
Why on earth don’t they trust me
I wish they did but I understand

trust....why should i trust when i lose trust in everyone
everyone i trusted has betrayed my trust
i feel as if trust is but a word with no meaning
why should i trust someone when they never believe me
they say they trust me but its just a stupid lie
WHY O WHY should i trust when nobody trusts me

For wet-nosed welcomes and four-pawed hugs, none
Can match the dog. Fur-bound coat, eyes so wide
And velvety melt our  heart and, 'will' gone
We most willingly succumb.  Keen to hide
Our love affair, we fake a careless style
And tone our voice to suit, but when tail wags
As if to break while greeting us, we smile,
Even when there's muddy floor, bedraggled
Dog just glances at us wistfully.  More
Than that, a quiet whine, defined as
An apology is all we need.  As for
Two-way trust it grows, and if by chance passed
Over for a newer canine pal, our
First love pines, two-way trust declines, then dies.
A dog's love is of moment and of now.
That's all the canine heart can feel applies.
Thus, well or sick, lonely or in pain, fairly
Constant, man's best friends let us know they care.

This bloody poetry writing - it's like rock-climbing -
who asked you to, anyway?
who needs it?
why can't you be just like everyone else -
admire the mountain from afar,
Olympus, Parnassus, whatever, what's in a  name?
its cap of snow, the way you often can't see the top
for mist; like romance around truth.
Homer at the top saw gods - shall you?
But no -
it's a fine summer morning
and you get the urge to see the view from the top;
well fine, but that's not enough for you,
no going up the standard route for you, oh no,
you want to be the first to get to the top by
a new route never attempted before...
so there you are an hour or two later, at the grassy foot
safe in your skin and about to risk your life
(and your reputation, you conceited little man)
and off we go...
the rockface, truth itself (and did you give a single thought
to how that was built, or who might have built it?)
and you with this tiny, hot ambition;
but take it calmly now, word by word, or you're in trouble
and it's a banal climbdown for anyone to see and read.
and it's not as if anyone is going to appreciate
the difficulty of your climb
without doing it themself; and taste the exhilaration,
the selfish, lonely, glorious exhilaration
as you gain the top, and gaze at the heart-stirring, breeze-blessed view
as if you are for those few minutes before other thoughts creep in,
the master of your universe...
but beware, even the climb down you now face
back to the plains of everyday
may be a sterner test - humility may even
cross your mind, as you recall each step
that that same rockface of the truth
that challenged all your skills to master,
saved your life every step,  by its every ancient crack and crevice
so conveniently provided by nature and those millions upon millions
of seashells that built this truthful mountain...
and now, you're back on the level plain of everyday -
are you going to keep it quiet, or tell the world?
'Look, there's the mountain I climbed! ' 'Yes, I saw it
in the paper - how's the wife? ' And though
it'll be recorded in the books, the later editions will point out
that yes it was the first, but that was before the first
girl did it by that route, the first child,
the first man did it barefoot,
the first blind man did it from memory...
yes you'll feel good, yes you'll feel a bigger man,
yes you'll be a better climber for it,
yes your fellow climbers
will treat your name with respect,
yes they'll read it in the books,
but they'll never know, unless they try it,
how it felt at every risky step,
the holds you didn't take for caution's sake
on that rockface of truth,
what went through your mind or got blotted out.
But you'll know. And that's enough for you.
Personal satisfaction. And the hope
that your book about it will touch others,
even sell well. Your heart's in it -
what more can you ask?
This bloody poetry-writing.

The Universe is God
You did not know?
They do not tell
The Universe is God
All within it too
Including You
Including You
The Universe is God
To God we are as senses are to us
Yet we don't see
See that we are part of he
Or she
Read that again
More carefully

Written at Fourteen Years of Age.
Where, lovely Goddess, dost thou dwell?
In what remote and silent shade?
Within what cave or lonely cell?
With what old hermit, or unpractis'd maid?
In vain I've sought thee all around,
But thy unfashionable sound
In crowds was never heard,
Nor ever has thy form in town or court appear'd.
The sanctuary is not safe to thee,
Chas'd thence by endless mystery;
Thy own professors chase thee thence,
And wage eternal war with thee and sense;
Then in perplexing comments lost,
E'en when they would be thought to show the most.
Most beautiful when most distress'd,
Descend, O Goddess, to my breast;
There thou may'st reign, unrivall'd and alone,
My thoughts thy subject, and my heart thy throne.

When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her, though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Unlearnèd in the world's false subtleties.
Thus vainly thinking that she thinks me young,
Although she knows my days are past the best,
Simply I credit her false-speaking tongue;
On both sides thus is simple truth suppressed.
But wherefore says she not she is unjust?
And wherefore say not I that I am old?
O, love's best habit is in seeming trust,
And age in love, loves not to have years told.
Therefore I lie with her, and she with me,
And in our faults by lies we flattered be.

The struggle goes on
Whichever direction you turn
There is no excluded section where you can run
The truth about life
Is merely to survive
From the moment you arrive
In birth, to the end of death
Copyright 2005 - Sylvia Chidi

I’m sorry for not being there
I’m sorry for never seeming to care
I’m sorry if you thought I never loved you
For that is surely not true
I’m sorry for always coming home drunk
And how my clothes always stunk
I’m sorry for not believing in you
I’m sorry that we never talked
It seemed as if we were just a couple of strangers wouldn’t you say?
I’m sorry for being hard on you even when you had a bad day
I’m sorry for never trying
I’m sorry for running away when I saw you crying
I’m sorry for leaving you in the dark
Without a light to find your way
I’m sorry for all that I’ve done to you
I’m sorry for never seeing you through
I’m sorry for putting you down
This is for everything I’ve done to you
I'm sorry you never knew the truth and the truth is I Love You.

Truth can never remain hidden,
Truth can never be bidden
Truth can never be covered
Truth can never be smothered!
Truth is revelation
Truth is rejuvenation
Truth always is a wonder
Truth always is a winner!

Truth is what truth is
Truth is feeling, truth is living
Truth is the realization of life.
Let us live in Truth
Truth in quality and in quantity
Let us discover truth in entire forming.
It is a fact, nothing lacks in Truth
Truth is the beginning and truth is the ending
And in between we find only truth
Nothing but the truth.
It is the vision that is truth
It is the knowledge that is truth
The path is the truth, the opinion is the truth
And we find the love and the life-drama in love is only Truth.

Truth truth truth
Everything is truth
The earth the water
The fire the air the ether
All that are accepted as truth
You are the original truth, my dear
Everything pertaining to You is also truth
Your body is truth Your knowledge is truth
Your smile is truth Your pleasure is truth
My offering is truth my surrender is truth
Your protection is also truth
Truth truth truth
Everything is truth
My dear, see my love is truth.

when peace is forever,
why war?
It doesn't last
like peace.
(for Jerry Hughes, poet)

I see the soldiers marching on
Singing a cold war song
On the road they hold onto their guns
As the fighting goes on all day long
Fight, March, and fight
Shoot, aim and shoot right
Whether the sun shines, this is war
This is war whether the rains pours
This is war where we kill
Our friends, sisters and brothers
For they are our enemies for real
If they choose against us for another
They go to war
Because of a handful of political men
Who stand alive; in erect offices still holding their pens
The soldiers fight until no one stands up anymore!
Fight, March, and fight
Shoot, aim and shoot right
Whether the sun shines, this is war
This is war whether the rains pours
www.sylviachidi.com

Among the blight-killed eucalypts, among
trees and bushes rusted by Christmas frosts,
the yards and hillsides exhausted by five years of drought,
certain airy white blossoms punctually
reappeared, and dense clusters of pale pink, dark pink--
a delicate abundance. They seemed
like guests arriving joyfully on the accustomed
festival day, unaware of the year's events, not perceiving
the sackcloth others were wearing.
To some of us, the dejected landscape consorted well
with our shame and bitterness. Skies ever-blue,
daily sunshine, disgusted us like smile-buttons.
Yet the blossoms, clinging to thin branches
more lightly than birds alert for flight,
lifted the sunken heart
even against its will.
But not
as symbols of hope: they were flimsy
as our resistance to the crimes committed
--again, again--in our name; and yes, they return,
year after year, and yes, they briefly shone with serene joy
over against the dark glare
of evil days. They
are
, and their presence
is quietness ineffable--and the bombings
are
, were,
no doubt will be; that quiet, that huge cacophany
simultaneous. No promise was being accorded, the blossoms
were not doves, there was no rainbow. And when it was claimed
the war had ended, it had not ended.

Last year we fought by the head-stream of the Sang-kan,
This year we are fighting on the Tsung-ho road.
We have washed our armor in the waves of the Chiao-chi lake,
We have pastured our horses on Tien-shan's snowy slopes.
The long, long war goes on ten thousand miles from home,
Our three armies are worn and grown old.
The barbarian does man-slaughter for plowing;
On this yellow sand-plains nothing has been seen but
blanched skulls and bones.
Where the Chin emperor built the walls against the Tartars,
There the defenders of Han are burning beacon fires.
The beacon fires burn and never go out,
There is no end to war!—
In the battlefield men grapple each other and die;
The horses of the vanquished utter lamentable cries to heaven,
While ravens and kites peck at human entrails,
Carry them up in their flight, and hang them on the branches of dead trees.
So, men are scattered and smeared over the desert grass,
And the generals have accomplished nothing.
Oh, nefarious war! I see why arms
Were so seldom used by the benign sovereigns.

In fifty years, when peace outshines
Remembrance of the battle lines,
Adventurous lads will sigh and cast
Proud looks upon the plundered past.
On summer morn or winter's night,
Their hearts will kindle for the fight,
Reading a snatch of soldier-song,
Savage and jaunty, fierce and strong;
And through the angry marching rhymes
Of blind regret and haggard mirth,
They'll envy us the dazzling times
When sacrifice absolved our earth.
Some ancient man with silver locks
Will lift his weary face to say:
'War was a fiend who stopped our clocks
Although we met him grim and gay.'
And then he'll speak of Haig's last drive,
Marvelling that any came alive
Out of the shambles that men built
And smashed, to cleanse the world of guilt.
But the boys, with grin and sidelong glance,
Will think, 'Poor grandad's day is done.'
And dream of lads who fought in France
And lived in time to share the fun.

There was crimson clash of war.
Lands turned black and bare;
Women wept;
Babes ran, wondering.
There came one who understood not these things.
He said, "Why is this?"
Whereupon a million strove to answer him.
There was such intricate clamour of tongues,
That still the reason was not.

Brothers and sisters all over here fighting
Got me thinking so much now im writing
Why is there so much hate in the world
Seeing all this killing makes my stomach curl
We all need to pause and ask ourself, what are we really doing
We are turning our world into ruin
And what are we really proving
Who's the weaker or stronger human
I think were fighting for a hidden goal
But I'm being told so many lies it troubles my soul
So much he say she say dont know which side to choose
Times have gotten so bad I can't even believe what I hear in the news
At times I just want to bust my TV with a bat
Listening to all this the congress said this, but the media said that
You wish you could say it was better in the old days
But its pretty much the same thing just a new phase
War is never a good thing
But a world without war is still only a Dream.

Depression is a fight
Or a flight
Depression is a theif
That should be locked up
Depression steals...
Happiness
Motivation
Sleep
Your appetite
It steals your view on life
It steals how you view yourself
Sometimes it even steals your life

Roland cannot go to school,
his brother needs the trousers,
for shorts the weather is too cool
no clothes for rabblerousers.
The war was won by others, yup
the piper must be paid
I'll go around with paper cup
no longer so afraid.
We did respond to his Sieg Heil
yes all of us were proud
my brother walked the final mile
the cannon shot was loud.
Mankind has surely, truly learned
from all atrocities,
perhaps so many bodies burned
for man to have his peace.

Let 'em come, by gum!  That's all I say.
Let me see one of 'em up this way,
With their sacks a-back an' their walkin' boots
Low neck, short-panted hikin' coots
Flingin' their fags in the brambles here,
Same as that other one done last year.
He might just once; but he won't no more.
I'll nail his hide to the cow-shed door.
A mile o' fencin' and two good hust
All thro' them an' their lighted butts.
Patronisin'?  You're too dead right.
These city fellers is awful bright
Three good huts an' a mile o' fence!
'Tisn't so much me own expense;
Three mile o' forest gone up in smoke!
Well, ain't it enough to nark a bloke?
The worst they done was in ninety-five.
Poor ole Ben Bray, he'd still be alive
It if wasn't for that camp-fire they left.
But a burnt-out-home an' the kids bereft
Of their dad.  Yes; that was the toll that day;
An' the fellers what done it miles away.
Oh, there's fools in the forest as well as town.
I ain't lettin' none o' me neighbors down.
There's fools in the forests, as well I knows;
Chancin' a burn when the north wind blows.
An' they oughter be pinched . . . But them city skites,
Suckin' their fags an' strikin' their lights!
Just let me catch 'em!  Vindictive?  Me?
Ropeable, am I?  Well, wouldn't you be
If you suffered the same from their smokin' butts?
Three mile o' fencin' an' four good huts!

I commend myself and my love to you,
Aurelius. I ask for modest indulgence,
so, if you’ve ever had a desire in your mind
you’ve pursued chastely and purely,
keep this boy of mine modestly safe,
I don’t speak to the masses – nothing to fear
from those who pass to and fro in the streets
occupied with their business –
truly the fear’s of you and your cock
dangerous to both good and bad boys.
Shake it about as you please, and with as much
force as you please, wherever you choose, outside:
I except him from that, with modesty, I think.
But if tempests of mind, and mad passion
impel you to too much sin, you wretch,
so you fill my boy’s head with deceptions,
then let misery, and evil fate, be yours!
Of him whom, with feet dragged apart, an open door,
radishes and mullets pass through.

I'd rather be the Jester than the Minstrel of the King;
I'd rather jangle cap and bells than twang the stately harp;
I'd rather make his royal ribs with belly-laughter ring,
Than see him sitting in the suds and sulky as a carp.
I'd rather be the Court buffoon than its most high-browed sage:
So you who read, take head, take heed, -
Ere yet you turn my page.

Little Ballads Of Timely Warning; II: On Malicious Cruelty To Harmless Creatures
The cruelty of P. L. Brown—
(He had ten toes as good as mine)
Was known to every one in town,
And, if he never harmed a noun,
He loved to make verbs shriek and whine.
The 'To be' family’s just complaints—
(Brown had ten toes as good as mine)
Made Brown cast off the last restraints:
He smashed the 'Is nots' into 'Ain’ts'
And kicked both mood and tense supine.
Infinitives were Brown’s dislike—
(Brown, as I said, had ten good toes)
And he would pinch and shake and strike
Infinitives, or, with a pike,
Prod them and then laugh at their woes.
At length this Brown more cruel grew—
(Ten toes, all good ones, then had Brown)
And to his woodshed door he drew
A young infinitive and threw
The poor, meek creature roughly down,
And while the poor thing weakly flopped,
Brown (ten good toes he had, the brute!)
Got out his chopping block and dropped
The martyr on it and then propped
His victim firmly with his boot.
He raised his axe! He brandished it!
(Ye gods of grammar, interpose!)
He brought it down full force all fit
The poor infinitive to split—
*
(Brown after that had but six toes!
Warning
Infinitives, by this we see.
Should not he split too recklessly.

Don't call me just yet
Let me
Take a shower first
So I can polish and perfume
My slightly dry skin.
Don't call me just yet
Let me
Open my bottle
Of fine French wine,
Then sit down to dine
On a dinner fit for a king.
Then, and only then
Will I be ready to
Discuss how I might
Be able to help those
Suffering starving strangers.

The Doctor whispered to the Nurse
And the Surgeon knew what he said,
And he grew pale at the Doctor's tale
And trembled in his sick bed.
Now fetch me my brethren and fetch them with speed
The Surgeon affrighted said,
The Parson and the Undertaker,
Let them hasten or I shall be dead.
The Parson and the Undertaker
They hastily came complying,
And the Surgeon's Prentices ran up stairs
When they heard that their master was dying.
The Prentices all they entered the room
By one, by two, by three,
With a sly grin came Joseph in,
First of the company.
The Surgeon swore as they enter'd his door,
'Twas fearful his oaths to hear,--
Now send these scoundrels to the Devil,
For God's sake my brethren dear.
He foam'd at the mouth with the rage he felt
And he wrinkled his black eye-brow,
That rascal Joe would be at me I know,
But zounds let him spare me now.
Then out they sent the Prentices,
The fit it left him weak,
He look'd at his brothers with ghastly eyes,
And faintly struggled to speak.
All kinds of carcasses I have cut up,
And the judgment now must be--
But brothers I took care of you,
So pray take care of me!
I have made candles of infants fat
The Sextons have been my slaves,
I have bottled babes unborn, and dried
Hearts and livers from rifled graves.
And my Prentices now will surely come
And carve me bone from bone,
And I who have rifled the dead man's grave
Shall never have rest in my own.
Bury me in lead when I am dead,
My brethren I intreat,
And see the coffin weigh'd I beg
Lest the Plumber should be a cheat.
And let it be solder'd closely down
Strong as strong can be I implore,
And put it in a patent coffin,
That I may rise no more.
If they carry me off in the patent coffin
Their labour will be in vain,
Let the Undertaker see it bought of the maker
Who lives by St. Martin's lane.
And bury me in my brother's church
For that will safer be,
And I implore lock the church door
And pray take care of the key.
And all night long let three stout men
The vestry watch within,
To each man give a gallon of beer
And a keg of Holland's gin;
Powder and ball and blunder-buss
To save me if he can,
And eke five guineas if he shoot
A resurrection man.
And let them watch me for three weeks
My wretched corpse to save,
For then I think that I may stink
Enough to rest in my grave.
The Surgeon laid him down in his bed,
His eyes grew deadly dim,
Short came his breath and the struggle of death
Distorted every limb.
They put him in lead when he was dead
And shrouded up so neat,
And they the leaden coffin weigh
Lest the Plumber should be a cheat.
They had it solder'd closely down
And examined it o'er and o'er,
And they put it in a patent coffin
That he might rise no more.
For to carry him off in a patent coffin
Would they thought be but labour in vain,
So the Undertaker saw it bought of the maker
Who lives by St. Martin's lane.
In his brother's church they buried him
That safer he might be,
They lock'd the door and would not trust
The Sexton with the key.
And three men in the vestry watch
To save him if they can,
And should he come there to shoot they swear
A resurrection man.
And the first night by lanthorn light
Thro' the church-yard as they went,
A guinea of gold the sexton shewed
That Mister Joseph sent.
But conscience was tough, it was not enough
And their honesty never swerved,
And they bade him go with Mister Joe
To the Devil as he deserved.
So all night long by the vestry fire
They quaff'd their gin and ale,
And they did drink as you may think
And told full many a tale.
The second night by lanthorn light
Thro' the church-yard as they went,
He whisper'd anew and shew'd them two
That Mister Joseph sent.
The guineas were bright and attracted their sight
They look'd so heavy and new,
And their fingers itch'd as they were bewitch'd
And they knew not what to do.
But they waver'd not long for conscience was strong
And they thought they might get more,
And they refused the gold, but not
So rudely as before.
So all night long by the vestry fire
They quaff'd their gin and ale,
And they did drink as you may think
And told full many a tale.
The third night as by lanthorn light
Thro' the church-yard they went,
He bade them see and shew'd them three
That Mister Joseph sent.
They look'd askance with eager glance,
The guineas they shone bright,
For the Sexton on the yellow gold
Let fall his lanthorn light.
And he look'd sly with his roguish eye
And gave a well-tim'd wink,
And they could not stand the sound in his hand
For he made the guineas chink.
And conscience late that had such weight,
All in a moment fails,
For well they knew that it was true
A dead man told no tales,
And they gave all their powder and ball
And took the gold so bright,
And they drank their beer and made good cheer,
Till now it was midnight.
Then, tho' the key of the church door
Was left with the Parson his brother,
It opened at the Sexton's touch--
Because he had another.
And in they go with that villain Joe
To fetch the body by night,
And all the church look'd dismally
By his dark lanthorn light.
They laid the pick-axe to the stones
And they moved them soon asunder.
They shovell'd away the hard-prest clay
And came to the coffin under.
They burst the patent coffin first
And they cut thro' the lead,
And they laugh'd aloud when they saw the shroud
Because they had got at the dead.
And they allowed the Sexton the shroud
And they put the coffin back,
And nose and knees they then did squeeze
The Surgeon in a sack.
The watchmen as they past along
Full four yards off could smell,
And a curse bestowed upon the load
So disagreeable.
So they carried the sack a-pick-a-back
And they carv'd him bone from bone,
But what became of the Surgeon's soul
Was never to mortal known.

I'll smash your back
I'll weaken your bones
I'll bury your lovers
To rot in the earth
I'll take your sons
Where they cannot be reached
I'll make your daughter
Rip her knickers down
I'll leave you alone
To collect memories
Then i'll take them too
And i'll be what's left

Before you read my poetry
I want you to understand,
I, m not a high school scholar
I preferred the beach, the sun & sand.
So as you read & find mistakes
Please keep your opinions to yourself,
Cause my dictionary & other books
Lay forgotten on the shelf.
Forget the missing dots & dashes -
The capitals & commas,
For all these words come from the heart
And to me that's all that matters! ! !

I was charged with being
in illegal possession
of sexciting thoughts
about you and your body.
Get off with a stiff...warning.

Life is difficult for so many people
Now and back through the ages
Sometimes existence seems like a test
Hardship at many different stages
Through the Great Depression
Very few jobs were to be had
Some folks actually starved to death
Stories surface that are so very sad
Though most people try to do their best
Sometimes it just doesn’t seem enough
Circumstances create situations
That makes life extremely tough
When there’s no food, there’s usually water
A life-giving part of the land
A necessity that God has given us
Helping the weak strong enough to stand
He gives us the beautiful flowers
A drink of water to keep them alive
Sometimes they get just enough
That they are barely able to survive
And that’s just the way life is at times
It may not be what we would wish for
But if God gives us a drink of water
It sustains us for what’s yet in store!

You would be meandering by
Wasting your while
This world is not worth living under the sky
If you havnt tasted your soul water
Other delights will turn bitter
Open your inner eye
Feel the inner wind blowing
Inhale the fragrance
Listen to the sound of the water flowing
Become your own lover
Open the folds bit by bit
Use your innocence to see
Not your wordliness
That will make it flee
The soul water is pure
Crystal clear
Drink it
Drown in it
Anoint yourself with it

I am water
Sometimes solid...you can always depend on
Sometimes liquid...fits in anywhere
Sometimes vapor...ephemeral...I am there and then I am gone
Sometimes ice...but can be dissolved by fire
Sometimes swirling....with passion
Sometimes tranquil....with still desire
Always flowing....unaware of the destination
Sometimes vivid....like blue sapphire
Always pure....see your reflection
Always rising...wanting to go higher

For all men who hunger and thirst, let Jesus, in your life be first,
He will from a fountain higher, come fill our heart’s every desire.
The Lord will cause living water, to flow from within you forever,
When you truly come to know, Jesus Christ, eternal waters flow.
Through the Holy Spirit my friend, His living water will never end.
In everyone who Christ redeems, from inside flow living streams,
When you thirst for righteousness, Christ will fill your emptiness.
Not with a trickle or just a drop, but with streams that won’t stop.
All who thirst, Christ has willed, from His fountain shall be filled.
Filled through The Spirit above, sent to men through God’s love.
The well which feeds the spring, is regulated by the Eternal King,
And the well will never run dry, for its source is The Lord on High.
Rivers of water shall fill the life, of all who come to Jesus Christ.
They’ll hunger and thirst no more, when they know Christ as Lord.
God fills all our remaining days, with ever flowing joy and praise.
Being His example to all around, as the Love of Christ abounds,
A love from Christ that has its start, in every truly believing heart.
It comes only as you believe, and the Spirit of Truth you receive,
This living water He gives you, Christ wants to give to others too,
Using the living water of your life, to draw others to Jesus Christ.

Summer water streams
Through pigmented airy dreams
Every shadow seems

I sit and stare at this empty page,
The wind howls long at the winter eaves,
The cloud is heavy, and black with rage
As squalls dance in through the myrtle leaves.
While deep inside in the cottage gloom
My love lies weary, cocooned in dreams,
I hear her cry in the darkened room
Call out one name from a nightmare scene.
‘Michelle, ’ she mutters, then groans aloud
I grit my teeth at the open door,
The wind it eddies in dust and leaves
And echoes long at the water tower.
‘Michelle, Michelle, ’ it grumbles and groans,
‘Michelle, ’ it whispers, then skips and howls;
My love rolls over in deepest sleep
While I keep watch through the early hours.
The storm comes in and the rain drives down,
Batters at windows and roof in vain,
The wires whine in a humming frown:
‘Michelle, Michelle, ’ is its one refrain.
And tears roll at my weathered cheek
The clock chimes five at the early hour,
Michelle once crawled from her bed, asleep,
And went to climb at the water tower.
Her hair was black as a raven’s coat
Her eyes set back in that tiny face,
Three winters long was her spell of dreams
Before she crept to that dreadful place.
Three winters long was our fairy child
Who lisped and chattered from heart to heart,
The cottage door had a faulty latch –
I’d always meant to replace that part.
But now, awake from her nest of dreams
I see my love at the open door,
I wait in hope, but her eyes are ice;
She’s staring out at the water tower.
Then I look down, and the page is full,
I’ve scribbled the words of an ancient rhyme,
Over and over and over again –
‘I’ll fix the latch when I get the time.’
And she goes back to her bed to cry
While I sit frozen beside the door,
The latch still rattles, the door’s ajar;
I’ve punched three holes in the water tower.
13 June 1999

If you have forgotten water lilies floating
On a dark lake among mountains in the afternoon shade,
If you have forgotten their wet, sleepy fragrance,
Then you can return and not be afraid.
But if you remember, then turn away forever
To the plains and the prairies where pools are far apart,
There you will not come at dusk on closing water lilies,
And the shadow of mountains will not fall on your heart.

The spirit of life,
spreads everywhere,
to all corners of our globe.
Rain, mist, fog, snow,
form lakes, rivers,
babbling running brooks;
the carriers of life’s soul
life’s bountiful
identity and joy.
Without it,
grasses brown,
trees rot and fall,
no leaves, flowers,
seeds, or fruit;
no shade, no scent,
no colour, food.
Animals, people, die;
no creatures great or small.
Deserts of want appear
no life or giving;
there is a thirst upon the land.
In time, all will wither,
wilt, rot and die.
Then a dirt, an ash
a sandy earth of want,
no open hand,
all life has gone.
More valuable than gold,
a treasure for us all.
use wisely, it is life.
All used up;  We die!

Water, water you’re good for me
You help me hydrate and make me pee
Sodium and you are meant to be
Water, water I must have thee
I drink you in and you come out
Can’t have too much or little without a doubt
Water, water you’re clear and cool
You help brake food down into stool
When my kidneys scream and shout
You reabsorb and balance out
Water, water when I’m thirsty
You with fluoride keep teeth more than three
I must have you to survive
Cause without you I’m not alive
Water, water so plain to see
I’ll drink you till the end of me

A process in the weather of the heart
Turns damp to dry; the golden shot
Storms in the freezing tomb.
A weather in the quarter of the veins
Turns night to day; blood in their suns
Lights up the living worm.
A process in the eye forwarns
The bones of blindness; and the womb
Drives in a death as life leaks out.
A darkness in the weather of the eye
Is half its light; the fathomed sea
Breaks on unangled land.
The seed that makes a forest of the loin
Forks half its fruit; and half drops down,
Slow in a sleeping wind.
A weather in the flesh and bone
Is damp and dry; the quick and dead
Move like two ghosts before the eye.
A process in the weather of the world
Turns ghost to ghost; each mothered child
Sits in their double shade.
A process blows the moon into the sun,
Pulls down the shabby curtains of the skin;
And the heart gives up its dead.

It rained and drenched the waiting night,
Heavy torrents did it pour;
Next morning, all was clean and bright,
I could not ask for more.
The sky was baby powder blue,
the clouds had slipped away;
Sunlight deigned to shine on cue,
a refeshing brand new day.
I almost skipped onto the street,
this day felt new, washed clean;
Smiling, as I turned to greet,
the trees, in vibrant green.
The storm had passed at last,
I laughed with sweet relief;
No more skies downcast,
No deary days of grief.
Then suddenly,  I felt a drop,
hit hard upon my cheek;
It hurt as if it wouldn't stop,
It made me feel so weak.
As I turned my face to wince,
the skies turned angry grey;
Clouds gathered with a vengeance,
And the sun just hid away.
Rain burst from the thundering skies,
in a grandiose downpour;
Just like life...I turned my eyes;
Nothing is for sure.
©

It is true that, older than man and ages to outlast him, the Pacific surf
Still cheerfully pounds the worn granite drum;
But there's no storm; and the birds are still, no song; no kind of excess;
Nothing that shines, nothing is dark;
There; is neither joy nor grief nor a person, the sun's tooth
sheathed in cloud,
And life has no more desires than a stone.
The stormy conditions of time and change are all abrogated, the essential
Violences of survival, pleasure,
Love, wrath and pain, and the curious desire of knowing, all perfectly
suspended.
In the cloudy light, in the timeless quietness,
One explores deeper than the nerves or heart of nature, the womb or soul,
To the bone, the careless white bone, the excellence.

O suns and skies and clouds of June,
And flowers of June together,
Ye cannot rival for one hour
October's bright blue weather;
When loud the bumblebee makes haste,
Belated, thriftless vagrant,
And goldenrod is dying fast,
And lanes with grapes are fragrant;
When gentians roll their fingers tight
To save them for the morning,
And chestnuts fall from satin burrs
Without a sound of warning;
When on the ground red apples lie
In piles like jewels shining,
And redder still on old stone walls
Are leaves of woodbine twining;
When all the lovely wayside things
Their white-winged seeds are sowing,
And in the fields still green and fair,
Late aftermaths are growing;
When springs run low, and on the brooks,
In idle golden freighting,
Bright leaves sink noiseless in the hush
Of woods, for winter waiting;
When comrades seek sweet country haunts,
By twos and twos together,
And count like misers, hour by hour,
October's bright blue weather.
O sun and skies and flowers of June,
Count all your boasts together,
Love loveth best of all the year
October's bright blue weather.

A beautiful day
Sun’s shining, birds are singing
God’s in his heaven.
Pouring rain today
A good thing to wash away
The sins of the world.
It’s snowing outside
Little white flakes floating down
Blanketing the world.
Snow falling on me
Anesthetizing my pain
Pristine flakes from sky.
High winds are blowing
Papers swirling down the road
Hold onto your hat.
Very dark tonight
It’s the story of my life
There’s no moon at all.

Reader! what soul that laoves a verse can see
The spring return, nor glow like you and me?
Hear the quick birds, and see the landscape fill,
Nor long to utter his melodious will?
This more than ever leaps into the veins,
When spring has been delay'd by winds and rains,
And coming with a burst, comes like a show,
Blue all above, and basking green below,
And all the people culling the sweet prime:
Then issues forth the bee to clutch the thyme,
And the bee poet rushes into rhyme.
For lo! no sooner has the cold withdrawn,
Than the bright elm is tufted on the lawn;
The merry sap has run up in the bowers,
And bursts the windows of the buds in flowers;
With song the bosoms of the birds run o'er,
The cuckoo calls, the swallow's at the door,
And apple-tree at noon with bees alive
Burn with the golden chorus of the hive.
Now all these sweets, these sounds, this vernal blaze,
Is but one joy, express'd a thousand ways:
And honey from the flowers and song from birds
Are from the poet's pen his oeverflowing words.
Ah friends! methinks it were a pleasant sphere,
If, like the trees, we blossom'd every year;
If locks grew thick again, and rosy dyes
Return'd in cheeks, and raciness in eyes,
And all around us, vital to the tips,
The human orchard laugh'd with cherry lips!
Lord! what a burst of merriment and play,
Fair dames, were that! and what a first of May!
So natural is the wish, that bards gone by
Have left it, all, in some immortal sigh!
And yet the winter months were not so well:
Who would like changing, as the seasons fell?
Fade every year, and stare, midst ghastly friends,
With falling hairs, and stuck-out fingers' ends?
Besides, this tale of youth that comes again
Is no more true of apple-trees than men.
The Swedish sage, the Newton of the flow'rs,
Who first found out those worlds of paramours,
Tells us, that every blossom that we see
Boasts in its walls a separate family;
So that a tree is but a sort of stand
That holds those afilial fairies in its hand;
Just as Swift's giant might have held a bevy
Of Lilliputian ladies, or a levee.
It is not her that blooms: it is his race,
Who honour his old arms, and hide his rugged face.
Ye wits and bards, then, pray discern your duty,
And learn the lastingness of human beauty.
Your finest fruit to some two months may reach:
I've known a cheek at forth like a peach.
But see! the weather calls me. Here's a bee
Comes bounding in my room imperiously,
And talking to himself, hastily burns
About mine ear, and so in heat returns.
O little brethren of the fervid soul,
Kissers of flowers, lords of the golden bowl,
I follow to your fields and tusted brooks:
Winter's the time to which the poet looks
For hiving his sweet thoughts, and making honied books.

The sun it does seem to be struggling through the dark gray clouds for to shine
And though rain is in the weather forecast the day it is holding out fine
'Tis the typical sort of weather one expects of Victoria's Fall
Threatening to rain very often though on the dry side overall
A flock of silver gulls for food are begging by the forseshore on the pavement of the street
Some of them with part of one or their two legs missing and some others with very sore feet
To infections in their feet they must be quite vulnerable their handicaps with them through their short lives remain
Their crippled feet must feel painful pity for them in their pain
Returning once more to the weather the sun out and shining again
The weather forecaster may have it wrong today 'tis not likely to rain
Nature herself she is fascinating such insights from her we do gain
Yet we know so little about her as her ways as a mystery to us does remain
The scientists are learning from her and artists and writers she does inspire
And she always does fill me with wonder and her I can only admire.

THERE is a world of being
We range from pole to pole,
Through seasons of the spirit
And weather of the soul.
It has its new-born Aprils,
With gladness in the air,
Its golden Junes of rapture,
Its winters of despair.
And in its tranquil autumns
We halt to re-enforce
Our tattered scarlet pennons
With valor and resource.
From undiscovered regions
Only the angels know,
Great winds of aspiration
Perpetually blow,
To free the sap of impulse
From torpor of distrust,
And into flowers of joyance
Quicken the sentient dust.
From nowhere of a sudden
Loom sudden clouds of fault,
With thunders of oppression
And lightnings of revolt.
With hush of apprehension
And quaking of the heart,
There breed the storms of anger,
And floods of sorrow start.
And there shall fall,—how gently!—
To make them fertile yet,
The rain of absolution
On acres of regret.
Till snows of mercy cover
The dream that shall come true,
When time makes all things wondrous,
And life makes all things new.

Today it's raining cats and dogs,
Tomorrow it might be raining frogs.
If I should drink some syrup of figs,
perhaps tomorrow it will rain some pigs.
Last week we had lots and lots of snow,
My snow-mans joined the Navy you know.
Soon it will be time for April showers,
Will this help to paint the flowers.
Now I'll put on my sou'-wester,
And catch a boat that's going to Chester.
I might even make a telephone call,
To ask the sun to shine on us all.
A man I know wants to hire a boat,
Will this help him to keep afloat.
One of these days very very soon,
I'll catch a bus that's going to the moon.
In Burma I'm told they get monsoons,
They eat curried rice with wooden spoons.
There was also a man in China town,
That built his house upside down.
Now this poem is not a weather report,
And if it rains tomorrow, It's not my fault.

love never grows old
like vintage wine
it acquires a taste,
richness and smoothness
that swirls on the stage
of a connoisseur's
discerning tongue
to lift the joy of his heart
as the days go by
only those with it know why
in the heartfelt smile
of Charles, Camilla
love shines bright as
the fresh spring foliage,
a sparkling rage over
the gnarled weather beaten
branches and twigs
every bloom and leaf
is a renewal of hope
that seeps through every
royal vein today
now in charles' arms
lingers the charms
of spring that slowly
surely makes itself felt
after a frostbiting blizzard
a refreshing rose
greets the spring wind
twists gently to and fro
in a nuptial dance
to herald a new season
yesterday was deception,
a withered patch
taken over by snow
two persons left in the cold
living out other people's dreams
today a world comes true
for Charles and Camilla to
share their real selves
feeling with the world
the snow that slowly melts,
gives way to the beauty below -
a man and woman on a piece
of ground satiated with
their love for each other
a long cherished passion
that would see spring
spring into a riotious ring
of well wishes and joy
the rose that trails
the spring wind to fall
on Charles' arms today
god's gift after a trailblazing storm

Come up the broad river, the Thames, my Dane,
My Dane with the beautiful eyes!
Thousands and thousands await thee full fain,
And talk of the wind and the skies.
Fear not from folk and from country to part,
O, I swear it is wisely done:
For (I said) I will bear me by thee, sweetheart,
As becometh my father's son.
Great London was shouting as I went down.
'She is worthy,' I said, 'of this;
What shall I give who have promised a crown?
O, first I will give her a kiss.'
So I kissed her and brought her, my Dane, my Dane,
Through the waving wonderful crowd:
Thousands and thousands, they shouted amain,
Like mighty thunders and loud.
And they said, 'He is young, the lad we love,
The heir of the Isles is young:
How we deem of his mother, and one gone above,
Can neither be said nor sung.
He brings us a pledge—he will do his part
With the best of his race and name;'—
And I will, for I look to live, sweetheart,
As may suit with my mother's fame.

After paying tax, other kings left.
King Harichandran then kept
For counseling a few courtiers
On some important matters.
By then, some hermits
Stood at the palace gate.
With their pious faces
In their ascetic dresses.
He rushed up to the gate
And fell at their feet.
With all the due respects,
He offered them proper seats.
He said, “It’s my fortune,
And my good deeds alone,
Brought Your Holiness
To this humble place.”
“What’re the holy places
Also the holy rivers
You’ve visited so far?
In what condition they’re? ”
They replied, “We’ve come
From the Kannoj Kingdom,
After our bath in holy water
Of the famous Kandagi river.”
“There we heard about you
And came here to see you.
King Chandradayan is
The ruler of that place.”
“He’s an ardent devotee
Of Shiva, the Presiding Deity,
And a daughter was born
To him with His boon.”
“For her matchless beauty,
He named her Chandramathi.
She’s known for her chastity,
And her feminine modesty.”
“Her spear-like beautiful eyes,
Her sweet melodious voice,
Her black, thick, lock of hairs
Added to her charming face.”
“She has a sharp chest
Above her slim waist.
Her pretty swan-like walk,
Spoke of her majestic look.”
“With a *thali, she was born.
It’ll be visible to only one,
To whom she’ll be married.
This, Lord Shiva promised.”
(*Thali = A nuptial knot
tied around the neck of
bride by bridegroom at
the time of marriage)
“We came here to tell you,
She’s an ideal wife for you.
No doubt, you’ll like her,
When you go and see her.”
The words of the hermits,
Into his ears, strongly hit.
As destiny played its role,
In love with her, he fell.
“Oh Sages, I’m eager,
Right now, to marry her.
Your help, may I seek.
Can you initiate the talk? ”
“It’ll be our pleasure,
Oh King, to go there,
And after the talk,
Here, we’ll come back.”
After their departure,
He thought of his future.
Cupid’s arrow shot him well,
Into love sickness, he fell.
Crossing forests, rivers
Mountains and plains,
To Kannoj the hermits went
And the king, they met.
The King Chandradayan,
Got up from his throne,
Prostrated before them,
And gave a royal welcome.
They told, “Oh king, listen,
We met King Harichandran,
Of the Ayodhya Kingdom.
About Chandramathi, we told him.”
“We found him eligible,
The one most suitable
To marry your daughter.
He awaits your answer.”
The King told, “The man
Who sees her thali is the one
To marry her, is laid down
By Lord Shiva as a condition.”
“I’ll invite him here.
Also you bring him here.
Let the Lord of Heaven,
Take His final decision.”
Thro’ royal messengers
He sent invitation letters
To all the kings to come
For the selection of groom.
Kings of every state
Came there in haste
With all pomp and show
And camped there in a row.
Harichandran had heard
What all the hermits said
When they returned back
After their marriage talk.
He went then in his chariot
To take part in the event,
Followed by his ministers,
Soldiers, horses and elephants.
Sage Vashista arrived in
A white special palanquin,
To sanctify the function
With Vedas recitation.
There was a procession
To mark that occasion.
In front soldiers marched.
Elephants, horses went behind.
Many hermits and sages,
Irrespective of all ages,
Came to bless the function,
This being a rare occasion.
Colorful umbrellas, flags,
The sound of bugles, drums,
Elephants carrying maids,
Thrilled the processions.
Harichandran camped near
The famous Komati River
With his soldiers, horses,
Elephants and chariots.
It was time for the sun
To set in the west then.
At the river bank site
They settled for the night.
To the trees, horses were tied.
The elephants were chained.
For stay, tents were erected.
For light, torches burned.
Outside, the moon light
Made the night bright.
For sleep, went everyone,
Except King Harichandran.

My wedding day
The day before it we had a fight
Bits and pieces stay in the mind
Your tears and my fright
For all you would not say,
Became as a wall between us that night.
My wedding day
So many lights
Wanting to disappear into the crowd
Can't you take me away?
Please, listen......
Hear the words I am afraid to say.
My wedding day
Why in the world am I here?
This isn't truly where I long to be....
Please, just say the words,
The ones you'd speak to set me free.
My wedding day
A smile on my face to mask the sorrow
This wasn't what I wanted....
I've truly only wanted you.
The biggest mistake I'll ever make...
Are these vows I'm about to take.
My wedding day
And in the end I am in your arms
But for only heartbeat; a moment-
You hold me close as your tears overflow.
All I ever really wanted was to hold you....
And forever it breaks my heart
That you chose to let me go.

Sit down with me awhile, my Love
Let's leave the world behind;
This hour belongs to us alone:
Our moment etched in time.
Lean upon my shoulder, Sweet
And press your cheek to mine.
Let's set our eyes to spy upon
Our promised
ever after
, find.
Rest your arm upon my knee
And hold that smile again.
Another spot is next in line
On our wedding photography.

In these days of peace and money, free to all the Commonweal,
There are ancient dames in Buckland wearing wedding rings of steel;
Wedding rings of steel and iron, worn on wrinkled hands and old,
And the wearers would not give them, not for youth nor wealth untold.
In the days of black oppression, when the best abandoned hope,
And all Buckland crouched in terror of the prison and the rope,
Many fair young wives in Buckland prayed beside their lonely beds
For the absent ones who knew not where to lay their outlawed heads.
But a whisper went through Buckland, to the rebels only known,
That the man across the border had a chance to hold his own.
There were men that came in darkness, quiet, grim and travel-worn,
And, by twos, and threes, the young men stole away to join Kinghorn.
Slipping powder-horns and muskets from beneath the floors and thatch,
There were boys who kissed their mothers ere they softly dropped the latch;
There were hunters' wives in backwoods who sat strangely still and white
Till the dawn, because their men-folk went a-hunting in the night.
But the rebels needed money, and so, through the Buckland hills,
Came again, by night, the gloomy men of monosyllables;
And the ladies gave their jewels to be smuggled out and sold,
And the homely wives of Buckland gave their wedding rings of gold.
And a Buckland smith in secret, and in danger, in his shed
Made them rings of baser metals (from the best he had, to lead),
To be gilt and worn to market, or to meetings where they.prayed,
Lest the spies should get an inkling, and the husbands be betrayed.
Then a silence fell on Buckland; there was peace throughout the land,
And a loyalty that puzzled all the captains in command;
There was too much Law and Order for the men who weren't blind,
And the greatest of the king's men wasn't easy in his mind.
They were hunting rebels, certes, and the troops were understood
To be searching for a stronghold like a needle in a wood;
But whene'er the king was prayed for in the meeting-houses, then
It was strange with how much unction ancient sinners cried "Ah-men!"
Till at last, when all was quiet, through the gloomy Buckland hills
Once again there came those furtive men of monosyllables;
And their message was – "Take warning what the morrow may reveal,
Death and Freedom may be married with a wedding ring of steel."
In the morning, from the marshes, rose the night-mist, cold and damp,
From the shipping in the harbour and the sleeping royal camp;
From the lanes and from the by-streets and the high streets of the town,
And above the hills of Buckland, where the rebel guns looked down.
And the first one sent a message to the camp to fight or yield,
And the wintry sun looked redly on a bloody battlefield;
Till the man from 'cross the border marched through Buckland once again,
With a charter for the people and ten thousand fighting men.
There are ancient dames in Buckland with old secrets to reveal,
Wearing wedding rings of iron, wearing wedding rings of steel;
And their tears drop on the metal when their thoughts are far away
In the past where their young husbands died on Buckland field that day.

A FEAST was in a village spread,--
It was a wedding-day, they said.
The parlour of the inn I found,
And saw the couples whirling round,
Each lass attended by her lad,
And all seem'd loving, blithe, and glad;
But on my asking for the bride,
A fellow with a stare, replied:
"'Tis not the place that point to raise!
We're only dancing in her honour;
We now have danced three nights and days,
And not bestowed one thought upon her."
Whoe'er in life employs his eyes
Such cases oft will recognise.

I leave for thee, beloved one,
The home and friends of youth,
Trusting my hopes, my happiness,
Unto thy love and truth;
I leave for thee my girlhood's joys,
Its sunny, careless mirth,
To bear henceforth my share amid
The many cares of earth.
And yet, no wild regret I give
To all that now I leave,
The golden dreams, the flow'ry wreaths
That I no more may weave;
The future that before me lies
A dark and unknown sea --
Whate'er may be its storms or shoals,
I brave them all with thee!
I will not tell thee now of love
Whose life, ere this, thou'st guessed,
And which, like sacred secret, long
Was treasured in my breast;
Enough that if thy lot be calm,
Or storms should o'er it sweep,
Thou'lt learn that it is woman's love,
Unchanging, pure and deep.
If this life's sunshine gild thy lot,
Bestowing wealth and pride,
Its light enjoying, I shall stand,
Rejoicing, at thy side;
But, oh! if thou should'st prove the griefs
That blight thy fellow-men,
'Twill be my highest, dearest right,
To be, love, with thee then.
And thou, wilt thou not promise me
Thy heart will never change,
That tones and looks, so loving now,
Will ne'er grow stern and strange?
That thou'lt be kind, whatever faults
Or failings may be mine,
And bear with them in patient love,
As I will bear with thine?

WEDDING
Alex Brown
UK
21.12.09.
Wedding is:
Believing,
Accepting,
Adjusting,
Bearing,
Harmonizing,
Enduring,
Tolerating,
Sharing,
Symbiosing,
Synchronizing,
Swapping
Smiling,
Weeping
All in togethering
Finally LOVING

Some day, when trees have shed their leaves
And against the morning's white
The shivering birds beneath the eaves
Have sheltered for the night,
We'll turn our faces southward, love,
Toward the summer isle
Where bamboos spire to shafted grove
And wide-mouthed orchids smile.
And we will seek the quiet hill
Where towers the cotton tree,
And leaps the laughing crystal rill,
And works the droning bee.
And we will build a cottage there
Beside an open glade,
With black-ribbed blue-bells blowing near,
And ferns that never fade.

I
The air is silent save where stirs
A bugling breeze among the firs;
The virgin world in white array
Waits for the bridegroom kiss of day;
All heaven blooms rarely in the east
Where skies are silvery and fleeced,
And o'er the orient hills made glad
The morning comes in wonder clad;
Oh, 'tis a time most fit to see
How beautiful the dawn can be!
II
Wide, sparkling fields snow-vestured lie
Beneath a blue, unshadowed sky;
A glistening splendor crowns the woods
And bosky, whistling solitudes;
In hemlock glen and reedy mere
The tang of frost is sharp and clear;
Life hath a jollity and zest,
A poignancy made manifest;
Laughter and courage have their way
At noontide of a winter's day.
III
Faint music rings in wold and dell,
The tinkling of a distant bell,
Where homestead lights with friendly glow
Glimmer across the drifted snow;
Beyond a valley dim and far
Lit by an occidental star,
Tall pines the marge of day beset
Like many a slender minaret,
Whence priest-like winds on crystal air
Summon the reverent world to prayer.

So the winter now closed round them
With resistless fury. Scattering
Over all his breath so icy,
He inflamed each wind that blithe
To assail them angrily.
Over them he gave dominion
To his frost-unsharpened tempests;
Down to Timur's council went he,
And with threat'ning voice address'd him:--
"Softly, slowly, wretched being!
Live, the tyrant of injustice;
But shall hearts be scorch'd much longer
By thy flames,--consume before them?
If amongst the evil spirits
Thou art one,--good! I'm another.
Thou a greybeard art--so I am;
Land and men we make to stiffen.
Thou art Mars! And I Saturnus,--
Both are evil-working planets,
When united, horror-fraught.
Thou dost kill the soul, thou freezes
E'en the atmosphere; still colder
Is my breath than thine was ever.
Thy wild armies vex the faithful
With a thousand varying torments;
Well! God grant that I discover
Even worse, before I perish!
And by God, I'll give thee none.
Let God hear what now I tell thee!
Yes, by God! from Death's cold clutches
Nought, O greybeard, shall protect thee,
Not the hearth's broad coalfire's ardour,
Not December's brightest flame."

I WHO all the winter through
Cherished other loves than you,
And kept hands with hoary policy in marriage-bed and pew;
Now I know the false and true,
For the earnest sun looks through,
And my old love comes to meet me in the dawning and the dew.
Now the hedged meads renew
Rustic odour, smiling hue,
And the clean air shines and tinkles as the world goes wheeling through;
And my heart springs up anew,
Bright and confident and true,
And my old love comes to meet me in the dawning and the dew.

To the Memory of the Household It Describes
This Poem is Dedicated by the Author:
"As the Spirits of Darkness be stronger in the dark, so Good Spirits,which be Angels of Light, are augmented not only by the Divine lightof the Sun, but also by our common Wood Fire: and as the CelestialFire drives away dark spirits, so also this our Fire of Wood doth thesame." -- Cor. Agrippa, Occult Philosophy,
Book I.ch. v.
"Announced by all the trumpets of the sky,
Arrives the snow, and, driving o'er the fields,
Seems nowhere to alight: the whited air
Hides hills and woods, the river and the heaven,
And veils the farm-house at the garden's end.
The sled and traveller stopped, the courier's feet
Delayed, all friends shut out, the housemates sit
Around the radiant fireplace, enclosed
In a tumultuous privacy of Storm."     EMERSON, The Snow Storm.
The sun that brief December day
Rose cheerless over hills of gray,
And, darkly circled, gave at noon
A sadder light than waning moon.
Slow tracing down the thickening sky
Its mute and ominous prophecy,
A portent seeming less than threat,
It sank from sight before it set.
A chill no coat, however stout,
Of homespun stuff could quite shut out,
A hard, dull bitterness of cold,
That checked, mid-vein, the circling race
Of life-blood in the sharpened face,
The coming of the snow-storm told.
The wind blew east; we heard the roar
Of Ocean on his wintry shore,
And felt the strong pulse throbbing there
Beat with low rhythm our inland air.
Meanwhile we did our nightly chores, --
Brought in the wood from out of doors,
Littered the stalls, and from the mows
Raked down the herd's-grass for the cows;
Heard the horse whinnying for his corn;
And, sharply clashing horn on horn,
Impatient down the stanchion rows
The cattle shake their walnut bows;
While, peering from his early perch
Upon the scaffold's pole of birch,
The cock his crested helmet bent
And down his querulous challenge sent.
Unwarmed by any sunset light
The gray day darkened into night,
A night made hoary with the swarm
And whirl-dance of the blinding storm,
As zigzag, wavering to and fro,
Crossed and recrossed the wingëd snow:
And ere the early bedtime came
The white drift piled the window-frame,
And through the glass the clothes-line posts
Looked in like tall and sheeted ghosts.
So all night long the storm roared on:
The morning broke without a sun;
In tiny spherule traced with lines
Of Nature's geometric signs,
In starry flake, and pellicle,
All day the hoary meteor fell;
And, when the second morning shone,
We looked upon a world unknown,
On nothing we could call our own.
Around the glistening wonder bent
The blue walls of the firmament,
No cloud above, no earth below, --
A universe of sky and snow!
The old familiar sights of ours
Took marvellous shapes; strange domes and towers
Rose up where sty or corn-crib stood,
Or garden-wall, or belt of wood;
A smooth white mound the brush-pile showed,
A fenceless drift what once was road;
The bridle-post an old man sat
With loose-flung coat and high cocked hat;
The well-curb had a Chinese roof;
And even the long sweep, high aloof,
In its slant spendor, seemed to tell
Of Pisa's leaning miracle.
A prompt, decisive man, no breath
Our father wasted: "Boys, a path!"
Well pleased, (for when did farmer boy
Count such a summons less than joy?)
Our buskins on our feet we drew;
With mittened hands, and caps drawn low,
To guard our necks and ears from snow,
We cut the solid whiteness through.
And, where the drift was deepest, made
A tunnel walled and overlaid
With dazzling crystal: we had read
Of rare Aladdin's wondrous cave,
And to our own his name we gave,
With many a wish the luck were ours
To test his lamp's supernal powers.
We reached the barn with merry din,
And roused the prisoned brutes within.
The old horse thrust his long head out,
And grave with wonder gazed about;
The cock his lusty greeting said,
And forth his speckled harem led;
The oxen lashed their tails, and hooked,
And mild reproach of hunger looked;
The hornëd patriarch of the sheep,
Like Egypt's Amun roused from sleep,
Shook his sage head with gesture mute,
And emphasized with stamp of foot.
All day the gusty north-wind bore
The loosening drift its breath before;
Low circling round its southern zone,
The sun through dazzling snow-mist shone.
No church-bell lent its Christian tone
To the savage air, no social smoke
Curled over woods of snow-hung oak.
A solitude made more intense
By dreary-voicëd elements,
The shrieking of the mindless wind,
The moaning tree-boughs swaying blind,
And on the glass the unmeaning beat
Of ghostly finger-tips of sleet.
Beyond the circle of our hearth
No welcome sound of toil or mirth
Unbound the spell, and testified
Of human life and thought outside.
We minded that the sharpest ear
The buried brooklet could not hear,
The music of whose liquid lip
Had been to us companionship,
And, in our lonely life, had grown
To have an almost human tone.
As night drew on, and, from the crest
Of wooded knolls that ridged the west,
The sun, a snow-blown traveller, sank
From sight beneath the smothering bank,
We piled, with care, our nightly stack
Of wood against the chimney-back, --
The oaken log, green, huge, and thick,
And on its top the stout back-stick;
The knotty forestick laid apart,
And filled between with curious art
The ragged brush; then, hovering near,
We watched the first red blaze appear,
Heard the sharp crackle, caught the gleam
On whitewashed wall and sagging beam,
Until the old, rude-furnished room
Burst, flower-like, into rosy bloom;
While radiant with a mimic flame
Outside the sparkling drift became,
And through the bare-boughed lilac-tree
Our own warm hearth seemed blazing free.
The crane and pendent trammels showed,
The Turks' heads on the andirons glowed;
While childish fancy, prompt to tell
The meaning of the miracle,
Whispered the old rhyme: "Under the tree,
When fire outdoors burns merrily,
There the witches are making tea."
The moon above the eastern wood
Shone at its full; the hill-range stood
Transfigured in the silver flood,
Its blown snows flashing cold and keen,
Dead white, save where some sharp ravine
Took shadow, or the sombre green
Of hemlocks turned to pitchy black
Against the whiteness at their back.
For such a world and such a night
Most fitting that unwarming light,
Which only seemed where'er it fell
To make the coldness visible.
Shut in from all the world without,
We sat the clean-winged hearth about,
Content to let the north-wind roar
In baffled rage at pane and door,
While the red logs before us beat
The frost-line back with tropic heat;
And ever, when a louder blast
Shook beam and rafter as it passed,
The merrier up its roaring draught
The great throat of the chimney laughed;
The house-dog on his paws outspread
Laid to the fire his drowsy head,
The cat's dark silhouette on the wall
A couchant tiger's seemed to fall;
And, for the winter fireside meet,
Between the andirons' straddling feet,
The mug of cider simmered slow,
The apples sputtered in a row,
And, close at hand, the basket stood
With nuts from brown October's wood.
What matter how the night behaved?
What matter how the north-wind raved?
Blow high, blow low, not all its snow
Could quench our hearth-fire's ruddy glow.
O Time and Change! -- with hair as gray
As was my sire's that winter day,
How strange it seems, with so much gone
Of life and love, to still live on!
Ah, brother! only I and thou
Are left of all that circle now, --
The dear home faces whereupon
That fitful firelight paled and shone.
Henceforward, listen as we will,
The voices of that hearth are still;
Look where we may, the wide earth o'er,
Those lighted faces smile no more.
We tread the paths their feet have worn,
We sit beneath their orchard trees,
We hear, like them, the hum of bees
And rustle of the bladed corn;
We turn the pages that they read,
Their written words we linger o'er,
But in the sun they cast no shade,
No voice is heard, no sign is made,
No step is on the conscious floor!
Yet Love will dream, and Faith will trust,
(Since He who knows our need is just,)
That somehow, somewhere, meet we must.
Alas for him who never sees
The stars shine through his cypress-trees!
Who, hopeless, lays his dead away,
Nor looks to see the breaking day
Across the mournful marbles play!
Who hath not learned, in hours of faith,
The truth to flesh and sense unknown,
That Life is ever lord of Death,
And Love can never lose its own!
We sped the time with stories old,
Wrought puzzles out, and riddles told,
Or stammered from our school-book lore
"The Chief of Gambia's golden shore."
How often since, when all the land
Was clay in Slavery's shaping hand,
As if a far-blown trumpet stirred
The languorous sin-sick air, I heard:
"Does not the voice of reason cry,
Claim the first right which Nature gave,
From the red scourge of bondage to fly,
Nor deign to live a burdened slave!"
Our father rode again his ride
On Memphremagog's wooded side;
Sat down again to moose and samp
In trapper's hut and Indian camp;
Lived o'er the old idyllic ease
Beneath St. François' hemlock-trees;
Again for him the moonlight shone
On Norman cap and bodiced zone;
Again he heard the violin play
Which led the village dance away.
And mingled in its merry whirl
The grandam and the laughing girl.
Or, nearer home, our steps he led
Where Salisbury's level marshes spread
Mile-wide as flies the laden bee;
Where merry mowers, hale and strong,
Swept, scythe on scythe, their swaths along
The low green prairies of the sea.
We shared the fishing off Boar's Head,
And round the rocky Isles of Shoals
The hake-broil on the drift-wood coals;
The chowder on the sand-beach made,
Dipped by the hungry, steaming hot,
With spoons of clam-shell from the pot.
We heard the tales of witchcraft old,
And dream and sign and marvel told
To sleepy listeners as they lay
Stretched idly on the salted hay,
Adrift along the winding shores,
When favoring breezes deigned to blow
The square sail of the gundelow
And idle lay the useless oars.
Our mother, while she turned her wheel
Or run the new-knit stocking-heel,
Told how the Indian hordes came down
At midnight on Concheco town,
And how her own great-uncle bore
His cruel scalp-mark to fourscore.
Recalling, in her fitting phrase,
So rich and picturesque and free
(The common unrhymed poetry
Of simple life and country ways,)
The story of her early days, --
She made us welcome to her home;
Old hearths grew wide to give us room;
We stole with her a frightened look
At the gray wizard's conjuring-book,
The fame whereof went far and wide
Through all the simple country side;
We heard the hawks at twilight play,
The boat-horn on Piscataqua,
The loon's weird laughter far away;
We fished her little trout-brook, knew
What flowers in wood and meadow grew,
What sunny hillsides autumn-brown
She climbed to shake the ripe nuts down,
Saw where in sheltered cove and bay,
The ducks' black squadron anchored lay,
And heard the wild-geese calling loud
Beneath the gray November cloud.
Then, haply, with a look more grave,
And soberer tone, some tale she gave
From painful Sewel's ancient tome,
Beloved in every Quaker home,
Of faith fire-winged by martyrdom,
Or Chalkley's Journal, old and quaint, --
Gentlest of skippers, rare sea-saint! --
Who, when the dreary calms prevailed,
And water-butt and bread-cask failed,
And cruel, hungry eyes pursued
His portly presence mad for food,
With dark hints muttered under breath
Of casting lots for life or death,
Offered, if Heaven withheld supplies,
To be himself the sacrifice.
Then, suddenly, as if to save
The good man from his living grave,
A ripple on the water grew,
A school of porpoise flashed in view.
"Take, eat," he said, "and be content;
These fishes in my stead are sent
By Him who gave the tangled ram
To spare the child of Abraham."
Our uncle, innocent of books,
Was rich in lore of fields and brooks,
The ancient teachers never dumb
Of Nature's unhoused lyceum.
In moons and tides and weather wise,
He read the clouds as prophecies,
And foul or fair could well divine,
By many an occult hint and sign,
Holding the cunning-warded keys
To all the woodcraft mysteries;
Himself to Nature's heart so near
That all her voices in his ear
Of beast or bird had meanings clear,
Like Apollonius of old,
Who knew the tales the sparrows told,
Or Hermes, who interpreted
What the sage cranes of Nilus said;
A simple, guileless, childlike man,
Content to live where life began;
Strong only on his native grounds,
The little world of sights and sounds
Whose girdle was the parish bounds,
Whereof his fondly partial pride
The common features magnified,
As Surrey hills to mountains grew
In White of Selborne's loving view, --
He told how teal and loon he shot,
And how the eagle's eggs he got,
The feats on pond and river done,
The prodigies of rod and gun;
Till, warming with the tales he told,
Forgotten was the outside cold,
The bitter wind unheeded blew,
From ripening corn the pigeons flew,
The partridge drummed i' the wood, the mink
Went fishing down the river-brink.
In fields with bean or clover gray,
The woodchuck, like a hermit gray,
Peered from the doorway of his cell;
The muskrat plied the mason's trade,
And tier by tier his mud-walls laid;
And from the shagbark overhead
The grizzled squirrel dropped his shell.
Next, the dear aunt, whose smile of cheer
And voice in dreams I see and hear, --
The sweetest woman ever Fate
Perverse denied a household mate,
Who, lonely, homeless, not the less
Found peace in love's unselfishness,
And welcome wheresoe'er she went,
A calm and gracious element,
Whose presence seemed the sweet income
And womanly atmosphere of home, --
Called up her girlhood memories,
The huskings and the apple-bees,
The sleigh-rides and the summer sails,
Weaving through all the poor details
And homespun warp of circumstance
A golden woof-thread of romance.
For well she kept her genial mood
And simple faith of maidenhood;
Before her still a cloud-land lay,
The mirage loomed across her way;
The morning dew, that dries so soon
With others, glistened at her noon;
Through years of toil and soil and care,
From glossy tress to thin gray hair,
All unprofaned she held apart
The virgin fancies of the heart.
Be shame to him of woman born
Who hath for such but thought of scorn.
There, too, our elder sister plied
Her evening task the stand beside;
A full, rich nature, free to trust,
Truthful and almost sternly just,
Impulsive, earnest, prompt to act,
And make her generous thought a fact,
Keeping with many a light disguise
The secret of self-sacrifice.
O heart sore-tried! thou hast the best
That Heaven itself could give thee, -- rest,
Rest from all bitter thoughts and things!
How many a poor one's blessing went
With thee beneath the low green tent
Whose curtain never outward swings!
As one who held herself a part
Of all she saw, and let her heart
Against the household bosom lean,
Upon the motley-braided mat
Our youngest and our dearest sat,
Lifting her large, sweet, asking eyes,
Now bathed in the unfading green
And holy peace of Paradise.
Oh, looking from some heavenly hill,
Or from the shade of saintly palms,
Or silver reach of river calms,
Do those large eyes behold me still?
With me one little year ago: --
The chill weight of the winter snow
For months upon her grave has lain;
And now, when summer south-winds blow
And brier and harebell bloom again,
I tread the pleasant paths we trod,
I see the violet-sprinkled sod
Whereon she leaned, too frail and weak
The hillside flowers she loved to seek,
Yet following me where'er I went
With dark eyes full of love's content.
The birds are glad; the brier-rose fills
The air with sweetness; all the hills
Stretch green to June's unclouded sky;
But still I wait with ear and eye
For something gone which should be nigh,
A loss in all familiar things,
In flower that blooms, and bird that sings.
And yet, dear heart! remembering thee,
Am I not richer than of old?
Safe in thy immortality,
What change can reach the wealth I hold?
What chance can mar the pearl and gold
Thy love hath left in trust with me?
And while in life's late afternoon,
Where cool and long the shadows grow,
I walk to meet the night that soon
Shall shape and shadow overflow,
I cannot feel that thou art far,
Since near at need the angels are;
And when the sunset gates unbar,
Shall I not see thee waiting stand,
And, white against the evening star,
The welcome of thy beckoning hand?
Brisk wielder of the birch and rule,
The master of the district school
Held at the fire his favored place,
Its warm glow lit a laughing face
Fresh-hued and fair, where scarce appeared
The uncertain prophecy of beard.
He teased the mitten-blinded cat,
Played cross-pins on my uncle's hat,
Sang songs, and told us what befalls
In classic Dartmouth's college halls.
Born the wild Northern hills among,
From whence his yeoman father wrung
By patient toil subsistence scant,
Not competence and yet not want,
He early gained the power to pay
His cheerful, self-reliant way;
Could doff at ease his scholar's gown
To peddle wares from town to town;
Or through the long vacation's reach
In lonely lowland districts teach,
Where all the droll experience found
At stranger hearths in boarding round,
The moonlit skater's keen delight,
The sleigh-drive through the frosty night,
The rustic party, with its rough
Accompaniment of blind-man's-buff,
And whirling-plate, and forfeits paid,
His winter task a pastime made.
Happy the snow-locked homes wherein
He tuned his merry violin,
Or played the athlete in the barn,
Or held the good dame's winding-yarn,
Or mirth-provoking versions told
Of classic legends rare and old,
Wherein the scenes of Greece and Rome
Had all the commonplace of home,
And little seemed at best the odds
'Twixt Yankee pedlers and old gods;
Where Pindus-born Arachthus took
The guise of any grist-mill brook,
And dread Olympus at his will
Became a huckleberry hill.
A careless boy that night he seemed;
But at his desk he had the look
And air of one who wisely schemed,
And hostage from the future took
In trainëd thought and lore of book.
Large-brained, clear-eyed, of such as he
Shall Freedom's young apostles be,
Who, following in War's bloody trail,
Shall every lingering wrong assail;
All chains from limb and spirit strike,
Uplift the black and white alike;
Scatter before their swift advance
The darkness and the ignorance,
The pride, the lust, the squalid sloth,
Which nurtured Treason's monstrous growth,
Made murder pastime, and the hell
Of prison-torture possible;
The cruel lie of caste refute,
Old forms remould, and substitute
For Slavery's lash the freeman's will,
For blind routine, wise-handed skill;
A school-house plant on every hill,
Stretching in radiate nerve-lines thence
The quick wires of intelligence;
Till North and South together brought
Shall own the same electric thought,
In peace a common flag salute,
And, side by side in labor's free
And unresentful rivalry,
Harvest the fields wherein they fought.
Another guest that winter night
Flashed back from lustrous eyes the light.
Unmarked by time, and yet not young,
The honeyed music of her tongue
And words of meekness scarcely told
A nature passionate and bold,
Strong, self-concentred, spurning guide,
Its milder features dwarfed beside
Her unbent will's majestic pride.
She sat among us, at the best,
A not unfeared, half-welcome guest,
Rebuking with her cultured phrase
Our homeliness of words and ways.
A certain pard-like, treacherous grace
Swayed the lithe limbs and drooped the lash,
Lent the white teeth their dazzling flash;
And under low brows, black with night,
Rayed out at times a dangerous light;
The sharp heat-lightnings of her face
Presaging ill to him whom Fate
Condemned to share her love or hate.
A woman tropical, intense
In thought and act, in soul and sense,
She blended in a like degree
The vixen and the devotee,
Revealing with each freak or feint
The temper of Petruchio's Kate,
The raptures of Siena's saint.
Her tapering hand and rounded wrist
Had facile power to form a fist;
The warm, dark languish of her eyes
Was never safe from wrath's surprise.
Brows saintly calm and lips devout
Knew every change of scowl and pout;
And the sweet voice had notes more high
And shrill for social battle-cry.
Since then what old cathedral town
Has missed her pilgrim staff and gown,
What convent-gate has held its lock
Against the challenge of her knock!
Through Smyrna's plague-hushed thoroughfares,
Up sea-set Malta's rocky stairs,
Gray olive slopes of hills that hem
Thy tombs and shrines, Jerusalem,
Or startling on her desert throne
The crazy Queen of Lebanon
With claims fantastic as her own,
Her tireless feet have held their way;
And still, unrestful, bowed, and gray,
She watches under Eastern skies,
With hope each day renewed and fresh,
The Lord's quick coming in the flesh,
Whereof she dreams and prophesies!
Where'er her troubled path may be,
The Lord's sweet pity with her go!
The outward wayward life we see,
The hidden springs we may not know.
Nor is it given us to discern
What threads the fatal sisters spun,
Through what ancestral years has run
The sorrow with the woman born,
What forged her cruel chain of moods,
What set her feet in solitudes,
And held the love within her mute,
What mingled madness in the blood,
A life-long discord and annoy,
Water of tears with oil of joy,
And hid within the folded bud
Perversities of flower and fruit.
It is not ours to separate
The tangled skein of will and fate,
To show what metes and bounds should stand
Upon the soul's debatable land,
And between choice and Providence
Divide the circle of events;
But He who knows our frame is just,
Merciful and compassionate,
And full of sweet assurances
And hope for all the language is,
That He remembereth we are dust!
At last the great logs, crumbling low,
Sent out a dull and duller glow,
The bull's-eye watch that hung in view,
Ticking its weary circuit through,
Pointed with mutely warning sign
Its black hand to the hour of nine.
That sign the pleasant circle broke:
My uncle ceased his pipe to smoke,
Knocked from its bowl the refuse gray,
And laid it tenderly away;
Then roused himself to safely cover
The dull red brands with ashes over.
And while, with care, our mother laid
The work aside, her steps she stayed
One moment, seeking to express
Her grateful sense of happiness
For food and shelter, warmth and health,
And love's contentment more than wealth,
With simple wishes (not the weak,
Vain prayers which no fulfilment seek,
But such as warm the generous heart,
O'er-prompt to do with Heaven its part)
That none might lack, that bitter night,
For bread and clothing, warmth and light.
Within our beds awhile we heard
The wind that round the gables roared,
With now and then a ruder shock,
Which made our very bedsteads rock.
We heard the loosened clapboards tost,
The board-nails snapping in the frost;
And on us, through the unplastered wall,
Felt the light sifted snow-flakes fall.
But sleep stole on, as sleep will do
When hearts are light and life is new;
Faint and more faint the murmurs grew,
Till in the summer-land of dreams
They softened to the sound of streams,
Low stir of leaves, and dip of oars,
And lapsing waves on quiet shores.
Next morn we wakened with the shout
Of merry voices high and clear;
And saw the teamsters drawing near
To break the drifted highways out.
Down the long hillside treading slow
We saw the half-buried oxen go,
Shaking the snow from heads uptost,
Their straining nostrils white with frost.
Before our door the straggling train
Drew up, an added team to gain.
The elders threshed their hands a-cold,
Passed, with the cider-mug, their jokes
From lip to lip; the younger folks
Down the loose snow-banks, wrestling, rolled,
Then toiled again the cavalcade
O'er windy hill, through clogged ravine,
And woodland paths that wound between
Low drooping pine-boughs winter-weighed.
From every barn a team afoot,
At every house a new recruit,
Where, drawn by Nature's subtlest law,
Haply the watchful young men saw
Sweet doorway pictures of the curls
And curious eyes of merry girls,
Lifting their hands in mock defence
Against the snow-ball's compliments,
And reading in each missive tost
The charm with Eden never lost.
We heard once more the sleigh-bells' sound;
And, following where the teamsters led,
The wise old Doctor went his round,
Just pausing at our door to say,
In the brief autocratic way
Of one who, prompt at Duty's call,
Was free to urge her claim on all,
That some poor neighbor sick abed
At night our mother's aid would need.
For, one in generous thought and deed,
What mattered in the sufferer's sight
The Quaker matron's inward light,
The Doctor's mail of Calvin's creed?
All hearts confess the saints elect
Who, twain in faith, in love agree,
And melt not in an acid sect
The Christian pearl of charity!
So days went on: a week had passed
Since the great world was heard from last.
The Almanac we studied o'er,
Read and reread our little store
Of books and pamphlets, scarce a score;
One harmless novel, mostly hid
From younger eyes, a book forbid,
And poetry, (or good or bad,
A single book was all we had,)
Where Ellwood's meek, drab-skirted Muse,
A stranger to the heathen Nine,
Sang, with a somewhat nasal whine,
The wars of David and the Jews.
At last the floundering carrier bore
The village paper to our door.
Lo! broadening outward as we read,
To warmer zones the horizon spread
In panoramic length unrolled
We saw the marvels that it told.
Before us passed the painted Creeks,
And daft McGregor on his raids
In Costa Rica's everglades.
And up Taygetos winding slow
Rode Ypsilanti's Mainote Greeks,
A Turk's head at each saddle-bow!
Welcome to us its week-old news,
Its corner for the rustic Muse,
Its monthly gauge of snow and rain,
Its record, mingling in a breath
The wedding bell and dirge of death:
Jest, anecdote, and love-lorn tale,
The latest culprit sent to jail;
Its hue and cry of stolen and lost,
Its vendue sales and goods at cost,
And traffic calling loud for gain.
We felt the stir of hall and street,
The pulse of life that round us beat;
The chill embargo of the snow
Was melted in the genial glow;
Wide swung again our ice-locked door,
And all the world was ours once more!
Clasp, Angel of the backword look
And folded wings of ashen gray
And voice of echoes far away,
The brazen covers of thy book;
The weird palimpsest old and vast,
Wherein thou hid'st the spectral past;
Where, closely mingling, pale and glow
The characters of joy and woe;
The monographs of outlived years,
Or smile-illumed or dim with tears,
Green hills of life that slope to death,
And haunts of home, whose vistaed trees
Shade off to mournful cypresses
With the white amaranths underneath.
Even while I look, I can but heed
The restless sands' incessant fall,
Importunate hours that hours succeed,
Each clamorous with its own sharp need,
And duty keeping pace with all.
Shut down and clasp with heavy lids;
I hear again the voice that bids
The dreamer leave his dream midway
For larger hopes and graver fears:
Life greatens in these later years,
The century's aloe flowers to-day!
Yet, haply, in some lull of life,
Some Truce of God which breaks its strife,
The worldling's eyes shall gather dew,
Dreaming in throngful city ways
Of winter joys his boyhood knew;
And dear and early friends -- the few
Who yet remain -- shall pause to view
These Flemish pictures of old days;
Sit with me by the homestead hearth,
And stretch the hands of memory forth
To warm them at the wood-fire's blaze!
And thanks untraced to lips unknown
Shall greet me like the odors blown
From unseen meadows newly mown,
Or lilies floating in some pond,
Wood-fringed, the wayside gaze beyond;
The traveller owns the grateful sense
Of sweetness near, he knows not whence,
And, pausing, takes with forehead bare
The benediction of the air.

THEE for my recitative!
Thee in the driving storm, even as now--the snow--the winter-day
declining;
Thee in thy panoply, thy measured dual throbbing, and thy beat
convulsive;
Thy black cylindric body, golden brass, and silvery steel;
Thy ponderous side-bars, parallel and connecting rods, gyrating,
shuttling at thy sides;
Thy metrical, now swelling pant and roar--now tapering in the
distance;
Thy great protruding head-light, fix'd in front;
Thy long, pale, floating vapor-pennants, tinged with delicate purple;
The dense and murky clouds out-belching from thy smoke-stack;
Thy knitted frame--thy springs and valves--the tremulous twinkle of
thy wheels;                                                  10
Thy train of cars behind, obedient, merrily-following,
Through gale or calm, now swift, now slack, yet steadily careering:
Type of the modern! emblem of motion and power! pulse of the
continent!
For once, come serve the Muse, and merge in verse, even as here I see
thee,
With storm, and buffeting gusts of wind, and falling snow;
By day, thy warning, ringing bell to sound its notes,
By night, thy silent signal lamps to swing.
Fierce-throated beauty!
Roll through my chant, with all thy lawless music! thy swinging lamps
at night;
Thy piercing, madly-whistled laughter! thy echoes, rumbling like an
earthquake, rousing all!                                     20
Law of thyself complete, thine own track firmly holding;
(No sweetness debonair of tearful harp or glib piano thine,)
Thy trills of shrieks by rocks and hills return'd,
Launch'd o'er the prairies wide--across the lakes,
To the free skies, unpent, and glad, and strong.

To-night the very horses springing by
Toss gold from whitened nostrils. In a dream
The streets that narrow to the westward gleam
Like rows of golden palaces; and high
From all the crowded chimneys tower and die
A thousand aureoles. Down in the west
The brimming plains beneath the sunset rest,
One burning sea of gold. Soon, soon shall fly
The glorious vision, and the hours shall feel
A mightier master; soon from height to height,
With silence and the sharp unpitying stars,
Stern creeping frosts, and winds that touch like steel,
Out of the depth beyond the eastern bars,
Glittering and still shall come the awful night.

What is this feeling within my heart;
Concealed  by  daylight hours, in  a  shroud of taut restraint.
Winter  evenings  consume,  yesterdays  pursue me,
Smiling, speaking, acting – I can cope, I can cope….
An injured heart bares  healing in the nearness of love,
Yet love becomes frigid  when winter sweeps in, I am alone.
The  world is cold, my heart  laments in  fearful silence
Winter, winter,  where are your friends? ,
Betrayed by the sheath of night, rejoicing in decay
In scornful silence, reflecting on unfulfilled dreams,
Dreading the night, enduring the day. Winter.
Hopes and Dreams,  rest  upon a cradle of love,
Unconditional, fruitful, forbearing, eternal,
Winter  steals, freezes,  and denies.
To be alone in this season, is to be alone,
No voices, no echoes, no gentle memories shared.
A solitary tree yielding to an  unfeeling winter,
Surrendering its leaves  to  winters steel sky.
Fleeting Sunshine, stolen,   lacking of kindness,  or  warmth
Sheets of invasive rain, such unforgiving indifference
Winter is  reconciliation without forgiveness
Yet,  it is the door to Spring, and the resurrection of hope.

When you startle awake in the dark morning
heart pounding breathing fast
sitting bolt upright staring into
dark whirlpool black hole
feeling its suction
Get out of bed
knock at the door of your nearest friend
ask to lie down ask to be held
Listen while whispered words
turn the hole into deep night sky
stars close together
winter moon rising over white fields
nearby wren rustling dry leaves
distant owl echoing
two people walking up the road laughing
Let your soul laugh
let your heart sigh out
that long held breath so hollow in your stomach
so swollen in your throat
Already light is returning pairs of wings
lift softly off your eyelids one by one
each feathered edge clearer between you
and the pearl veil of day
You have nothing to do but live

a happy man
saying,
life

When Nature made her chief work, Stella's eyes,
In colour black why wrapt she beams so bright?
Would she in beamy black, like painter wise,
Frame daintiest lustre, mix'd of shades and light?
Or did she else that sober hue devise,
In object best to knit and strength our sight;
Lest, if no veil these brave gleams did disguise,
They, sunlike, should more dazzle than delight?
Or would she her miraculous power show,
That, whereas black seems beauty's contrary,
She even in black doth make all beauties flow?
Both so, and thus,--she, minding Love should be
Plac'd ever there, gave him this mourning weed
To honour all their deaths who for her bleed.

Attending the PMDS workshop today
a 46-page page performance document
to be discussed in detail, I opened it and
closed it immediately, more boring than
that can’t exist in any universe, I’ll go to the
meeting hoping to enjoy the conversation,
the facial expressions of my colleagues;
but not in order to be man-handled again
by Human Resources whose insanity is
rampant and getting worse every day,
we do five minutes of work for every
fifty-page document delineating how
the work should be done, we have a
new form on which clients must fill in
what they thought of our performance -
strangely enough not a single client made
use of it as yet; I wonder why, given how
joyously we compile forms, isn’t it?

244
It is easy to work when the soul is at play—
But when the soul is in pain—
The hearing him put his playthings up
Makes work difficult—then—
It is simple, to ache in the Bone, or the Rind—
But Gimlets—among the nerve—
Mangle daintier—terribler—
Like a Panter in the Glove—

He
was a piece
of  work,
His life a
work of art
He was
a brilliant fool
masquerading as genius
Or, perhaps,
a stellar genius
just  acting
the fool
He wore his success
like a stagnant, rotting albatross
around his neck,
its stench his constant
companion and
splendid cologne
His Life Portrait was
surreal,
abstract, askew
Each and every
moment of his moments
engorged with
gleeful rage and
upcoming root-canal apprehension
He
was a proverbial
mess
Who constantly,
addictively,
helplessly
sought the problem,
the flaw,
the not-quite-right –
even in Summer’s pale roses
He just
took for granted
that,
even in Heaven
there’s something
terribly off,
The angels’ harps just
a wee bit out of tune
Like I said,
this man
was a colossal mess –
Picasso gone wrong

is by admitting
or opening away.
This is the simplest form
of current: Blue
moving through blue;
blue through purple;
the objects of desire
opening upon themselves
without us; the objects of faith.
The way things work
is by solution,
resistance lessened or
increased and taken
advantage of.
The way things work
is that we finally believe
they are there,
common and able
o illustrate themselves.
Wheel, kinetic flow,
rising and falling water,
ingots, levers and keys,
I believe in you,
cylinder lock, pully,
lifting tackle and
crane lift your small head--
I believe in you--
your head is the horizon to
my hand. I believe
forever in the hooks.
The way things work
is that eventually
something catches.

Now that you work
I have suddendly found my self pacing about
in our silent apartment
missing you and wishing
you would ask me the time.

We struggle with it
under many names;
we all feel the tension
and the tug-
how can I as a child
learn equality
and go to work
where
equality dies
in  the bureaucracy-
a lonely stepchild?
Where in the hierarchical
schema chart
does Freedom live?
Where is Justice
in the work place Meeting With Staff?
No, we all have bosses
and contemplate each day
where do my child-learned
ideals fit?
I will tell you;
in the Water Cooler Gossip Group.
There is where Justice is done
complaints are vented,
where equality before the H2O
is talked about and dispensed.
How can
what I learned democracy is
be banned from my work space?
How can Fairness and Morality
be slaughtered like the lamb
in the hierarchy?
We have revolutions not because of the
ruling class
but because of the anger exposed
and felt
before the Water-Cooler Deity;
where
shock and awe
exist,
where plots and plans
from the latest
gossip-tidbit
to strategic strategies shared
among participants
who like soldiers and couriers
make sure to dispense
each bon mot and redemption
far and wide
among those who did not make
the morning
Water-Cooler Meet.
True community
exists here,
at Water Cooler Church
complete
with the Paper Water Cooler
Communion Cup.
Drink up-
Salvation is Coming.
Truths long concealed
bubble up
Truthiness is clear like
Evian
and we drink it down
and steeled,
return
to that cubicle space
for another run
at Demon Boss
who hovers
overhead;
the Lufiwaulfe;
verbal bombs and
critiques
in the bomb bay
ready for release.
Excuse me
I need a drink.
Can't stand too much more
of this Faux-Equality.

Wake, work, home, eat sleep
This cycle keeps on and on
As the time it takes is so long
Wake, work, home, eat sleep
Wake work home eat sleep
This cycle don't seem at all to end
All your life in work you seem to spend
Wake work home eat sleep
Wake work home eat sleep
You start to see your life is slipping away
As people no longer around you stay
Wake work home eat sleep
Wake work home eat sleep
I'm surprised now I'm even getting time to eat
It would be bliss to stop rest my feet
Wake work home eat sleep
Wake work home eat sleep
You doing so many hours you feel ill
And you keep doing the cycle still
Wake work home eat sleep
Wake work home eat sleep
People bosses customers just keep adding more
You start to long for sleep and to snore
Wake work home eat sleep
Wake work home eat sleep
Something drastic happens the cycle breaks
And that all that it really takes
Wake work home eat sleep no more.....

long walk at night
the breeze freezes my spirit
the moon warms it up
pulling at my poetic soul
the crickets sing their poems to the night
a million other insects contribute their share
to loosen up the night
for lovers, husbands and wives
while a tide of words too
creeps in all directions in my mental sphere
saturates the poetic bar of the intellect
waiting to be strummed into verses
the rhythm swims along with them
as i write out verse by verse
the moon my friend shares its light
the night wind inspires
lovelorn stars wave all the way
a million light years away
heralding the birth of a song
sparkling, twinkling
guided by intricate orchestration of the night
before gracing the written page
long walk in the night
even the insects with the lamps
start to lend me their lights
between the twinke of the stars
they dance, sing, beat out a dance

No longer of Him be it said
"He hath no place to lay His head."
In every land a constant lamp
Flames by His small and mighty camp.
There is no strange and distant place
That is not gladdened by His face.
And every nation kneels to hail
The Splendour shining through Its veil.
Cloistered beside the shouting street,
Silent, He calls me to His feet.
Imprisoned for His love of me
He makes my spirit greatly free.
And through my lips that uttered sin
The King of Glory enters in.

"If all the world were paper
And all the sea were ink,
If all the trees were bread and cheese
What would we do for drink?
If all the world were sand O,
Oh then what should we lack O,
if as they say there were no clay
How should  we take Tobacco?
If all our vessels ran-a,
If none but had a crack-a,
If Spanish apes ate all the grapes
How should we do for  sack-a?
If all the world were men
And men lived all in  trenches,
And there were none but we alone,
How should we do for wenches?
If friars had no bald pates
Nor nuns had no dark  cloisters,
If all the seas were beans and peas
How should we do for oysters?
If there had been no projects
Nor none that did  great wrongs,
If fiddlers shall turn players all
How should we do for songs?
If all things were eternal
And nothing their end bringing,
If this should be, then how should we
Here make an end of singing?

The eyes open to a cry of pulleys,
And spirited from sleep, the astounded
soul
Hangs for a moment bodiless and
simple
As false dawn.
Outside the open window
The morning air is all awash with
angels.
Some are in bed-sheets, some are
in blouses,
Some are in smocks: but truly there
they are.
Now they are rising together in calm
swells
Of halcyon feeling, filling whatever they
wear
With the deep joy of their impersonal
breathing;
Now they are flying in place,
conveying
The terrible speed of their
omnipresence, moving
And staying like white water; and now
of a sudden
They swoon down in so rapt a quiet
That nobody seems to be there.
The soul shrinks
From all that it is about to remember,
From the punctual rape of every
blessed day,
And cries,
"Oh, let there be nothing on
earth but laundry,
Nothing but rosy hands in the rising
steam
And clear dances done in the sight of
heaven."
Yet, as the sun acknowledges
With a warm look the world's hunks
and colors,
The soul descends once more in bitter
love
To accept the waking body, saying now
In a changed voice as the man yawns
and rises,
"Bring them down from their ruddy
gallows;
Let there be clean linen for the backs
of thieves;
Let lovers go fresh and sweet to be
undone,
And the heaviest nuns walk in a pure
floating
Of dark habits,
keeping their difficult
balance."
Submitted by Robert Fish

Once, when midnight smote the air,
Eunuchs ran through Hell and met
On every crowded street to stare
Upon great Juan riding by:
Even like these to rail and sweat
Staring upon his sinewy thigh.

There's not a joy the world can give like that it takes away
When the glow of early thought declines in feeling's dull decay;
'Tis not on youth's smooth cheek the blush alone, which fades so fast,
But the tender bloom of heart is gone, ere youth itself be past.
Then the few whose spirits float above the wreck of happiness
Are driven o'er the shoals of guilt, or ocean of excess:
The magnet of their course is gone, or only points in vain
The shore to which their shivered sail shall never stretch again.
Then the mortal coldness of the soul like death itself comes down;
It cannot feel for others' woes, it dare not dream its own;
That heavy chill has frozen o'er the fountain of our tears,
And though the eye may sparkle still, 'tis where the ice appears.
Though wit may flash from fluent lips, and mirth distract the breast,
Through midnight hours that yield no more their former hope of rest,
'Tis but as ivy-leaves around the ruined turret wreath—
All green and wildly fresh without, but worn and grey beneath.
Oh, could I feel as I have felt, or be what I have been,
Or weep as I could once have wept, o'er many a vanished scene;
As springs in deserts found seem sweet, all brackish though they be,
So, midst the withered waste of life, those tears would flow to me.

The house was quiet and the world was calm.
The reader became the book; and summer night
Was like the conscious being of the book.
The house was quiet and the world was calm.
The words were spoken as if there was no book,
Except that the reader leaned above the page,
Wanted to lean, wanted much to be
The scholar to whom his book is true, to whom
The summer night is like a perfection of thought.
The house was quiet because it had to be.
The quiet was part of the meaning, part of the mind:
The access of perfection to the page.
And the world was calm. The truth in a calm world,
In which there is no other meaning, itself
Is calm, itself is summer and night, itself
Is the reader leaning late and reading there.

The world is too much with us; late and soon,
Getting and spending, we lay waste our powers:
Little we see in Nature that is ours;
We have given our hearts away, a sordid boon!
This Sea that bares her bosom to the moon;
The winds that will be howling at all hours,
And are up-gathered now like sleeping flowers;
For this, for everything, we are out of tune,
It moves us not.--Great God! I'd rather be
A Pagan suckled in a creed outworn;
So might I, standing on this pleasant lea,
Have glimpses that would make me less forlorn;
Have sight of Proteus rising from the sea;
Or hear old Triton blow his wreathed horn.

"I Have sacrificed all," thou sayest, "that man I might succor;
Vain the attempt; my reward was persecution and hate."
Shall I tell thee, my friend, how I to humor him manage?
Trust the proverb!  I ne'er have been deceived by it yet.
Thou canst not sufficiently prize humanity's value;
Let it be coined in deed as it exists in thy breast.
E'en to the man whom thou chancest to meet in life's narrow pathway,
If he should ask it of thee, hold forth a succoring hand.
But for rain and for dew, for the general welfare of mortals,
Leave thou Heaven to care, friend, as before, so e'en now.

World was in the face of the beloved--,
but suddenly it poured out and was gone:
world is outside, world can not be grasped.
Why didn't I, from the full, beloved face
as I raised it to my lips, why didn't I drink
world, so near that I couldn't almost taste it?
Ah, I drank. Insatiably I drank.
But I was filled up also, with too much
world, and, drinking, I myself ran over.
Translated by Stephen Mitchell

