SO many crosses,
so little hope, so many
puppets, praying for
some thing they dont
even believe in.where
is your devels, where are
your saints, where is your
GOD, when you fill your
body with drink, so many
crosses, so little faith,
so many puppets, waiting
for....what?

Alone in crowds to wander on,
And feel that all the charm is gone
Which voices dear and eyes beloved
Shed round us once, where'er we roved --
This, this the doom must be
Of all who've loved, and loved to see
The few bright things they thought would stay
For ever near them, die away.
Though fairer forms around us throng,
Their smiles to others all belong,
And want that charm which dwells alone
Round those the fond heart calls its own,
Where, where the sunny brow?
The long-known voice -- where are they now?
Thus ask I still, nor ask in vain,
The silence answers all too plain.
Oh, what is Fancy's magic worth,
If all her art cannot call forth
One bliss like those we felt of old
From lips now mute, and eyes now cold?
No, no -- her spell in vain --
As soon could she bring back again
Those eyes themselves from out the grave,
As wake again one bliss they gave.

Alone...at birth
Alone...at death
Not alone...in the afterlife

Alone in the world of writs
I stand alone
To mockery because my shoes are worn,
My suit torn.
Alone,
Because I refused to invest my time
In vanity of men’s wealth
The relentless treadmill of materialism.
The infinity of human thoughts are vital to me
While friends and colleagues
Constant in the mad rush for avarice
Alone,
When I speak against societal ills
Paid writers mock at me
And call me ‘fool’!
My mind, preaching constant messages of irrelevances
Because I will die a writer.
No money,
No friends,
No foe.
Alone,
When intelligent comrades backslide
into a reverse and praising of societal tyranny.
Alone,
When vanity of fame and temporal gain
Reduce men of honour
To a  loose dissolved state of lies.
Alone,
When the courage for truth
Falls to a beggarly withdrawal for fear
Alone,
When mass comrades reduce intelligence
To cheap Trade by Bata.
Alone,
When moneybags employ friends
In the service of sly.
Alone,
When kings and kingdom
Turn greater minds to lesser scribe.
Alone,
When hunger, pain, loneliness
Stare in the face
For uncommon stance.
Alone,
Let lies increase
Vanity multiply
Comrades compromise
Hunger kill
Clothes burnt
Impoverished me be
With no friends
No follower
And in the grave
Just like I came,
Alone, Alone.

the flesh covers the bone
and they put a mind
in there and
sometimes a soul,
and the women break
vases against the walls
and the men drink too
much
and nobody finds the
one
but keep
looking
crawling in and out
of beds.
flesh covers
the bone and the
flesh searches
for more than
flesh.
there's no chance
at all:
we are all trapped
by a singular
fate.
nobody ever finds
the one.
the city dumps fill
the junkyards fill
the madhouses fill
the hospitals fill
the graveyards fill
nothing else
fills.
Anonymous submission.

ONE face alone, one face alone,
These eyes require;
But, when that long’d-for sight is shown,
What fatal fire
Shoots through my veins a keen and liquid flame,
That melts each fibre of my wasting frame!
One voice alone, one voice alone,
I pine to hear;
But, when its meek mellifluous tone
Usurps mine ear,
Those slavish chains about my soul are wound,
Which ne’er, till death itself, can be unbound.
One gentle hand, one gentle hand,
I fain would hold;
But, when it seems at my command,
My own grows cold;
Then low to earth I bend in sickly swoon,
Like lilies drooping ’mid the blaze of noon.

I tell you that I see her still
At the dark entrance of the hall.
One gas lamp burning near her shoulder
Shone also from her other side
Where hung the long inaccurate glass
Whose pictures were as troubled water.
An immense shadow had its hand
Between us on the floor, and seemed
To hump the knuckles nervously,
A giant crab readying to walk,
Or a blanket moving in its sleep.
You will remember, with a smile
Instructed by movies to reminisce,
How strict her corsets must have been,
How the huge arrangements of her hair
Would certainly betray the least
Impassionate displacement there.
It was no rig for dallying,
And maybe only marriage could
Derange that queenly scaffolding -
As when a great ship, coming home,
Coasts in the harbor, dropping sail
And loosing all the tackle that had laced
Her in the long lanes...
I know
We need not draw this figure out
But all that whalebone came for whales
And all the whales lived in the sea,
In calm beneath the troubled glass,
Until the needle drew their blood.
I see her standing in the hall,
Where the mirror's lashed to blood and foam,
And the black flukes of agony
Beat at the air till the light blows out.

My heart feels like an empty shell
Washed up from the sea
My mind feels like it's going mad
From trying to break free
And my tears seem like a thousand oceans
And they're drowning all the bliss
And my lips ache to be touched
By a true loves kiss
But I'm not alone

When I am alone, I think about you
I think how much we are close to each other
even we are far distance
I think our love is in our hearts
I think the good time we've shared together
I think how important you are
I think to share my ideas with you
I think my last dance with you
I think of my last kiss to you
I think your love on me
I think about you everyday
and wanted to let you know
I remember you when I am alone

He walked away into the night,
His knuckles swollen from the fight,
A smile beneath his swollen eye,
Much satisfaction in his sigh.
He left behind a crumpled lump
A man who’d had a well-earned thump,
A bully belly filled with beer,
A crowd that had recoiled in fear.
He’d done his bit and saved the day,
Restored some order to the fray.
They watched him as went from view
Lost in the shadows he passed through.
“Forgive me, Lord”,  he stopped to pray,
“I know that’s not the angels’ way”.
The Lord said “When you deal with man,
You have to do the best you can..
I saw you really had no choice,
I saw those that you helped rejoice.
Now go and read the Holy Book
And do some work on that left hook.”

Love is some trick
You play on me,
Some sleight, some glance,
Tenacity!
You tumble the sheets
At my marriage bed
And ride with me, desperately
Angel Head.
Caught at your eyes,
Your thighs, your touch,
I ramp at your sighs
Your cries – Enough!
Then drown in lips
That would raise me, dead,
And sleep at you breathlessly,
Angel Head.
17 April 1987

angel
my baby
my little girl
a christmas baby
my little angel

Do you know who you are, earth angel.
You leave a lasting impression,
to everyone you see and touch,
You do it at your own discretion, and
you do it oh so much.
You do not fly, you have no wings,
but you have so many other things.
You have that face of mellow, that
Melancholy way.  You have a smile
that lingers and the soft touch of
your fingers.
Do you know who you are, earth angel.
I long to be near you, to feel your warm
embrace.     I feel empowered when I look
into your face. I love to listen to your
inspiration and the wisdom of your years.
It is then when I feel the formation of
happy, flowing tears.
Do you know who you are, earth angel.
You have been given a very special job,
from the  master up  above, a job that
allows you to spread an array of fragrant
love.
You were born on this earth and given
a light within.  A light that shines bright
to friends, strangers and kin.  You have
the ability to give that peaceful essence,
to those that must give up their earthly
bodily presence.
Do you know who you are, earth angel.
You are a seed of nature, a glowing
earthly creature with gifts of heavenly
glints to bestow upon earths people. The
fathers and the mothers, the sisters and the
brothers, the aunts and the uncles, the
cousins and the friends. You have much
work to do with the enemies too.  You
won’t be afraid, to you it’s very clear, you
always knew there was a special reason for
your presence here.
Earth angel, this has become your passion.
You know now what to do, now is the time
to accept your blessings and see them
through.
Written:  July 21/2006

You never stand alone
When your guardian angel is always near,
During the moments of trials and tribulation,
You will never be overcome with fear.
His presence may not be seen,
Regardless of where you are,
Rest assured that his halo is always shining
Like the brightest, heavenly star.
You never stand alone,
When in your heart you know,
Your guardian angel is your protectorate,
Who hovers over you and loves you so.

His eyes,
They follow,
Expecting...
I touch his face-
Your innocent without
Knowing it.
My Angel
The shadows gather
And he warms me
Thrills,
Holds me,
His eyes are dark,
My Angel
My soul it trails,
hoping, expecting,
Dreaming...
My Angel

It was written in the stars
That she would be something special
She was an Angel
A musical entrepeneur
Off the past, present and the future
Her voice was real
There was no need to mimic
Her romantic musical lyrics
She was an Angel
People were always curious
About this musical genius
Many used to climb the hills
And stand still
Just to hear her making love
To the strings of her guitar
She belted out songs
Some in a whisper
While the crowd will chant away
Delighted to hear her play
She was an Angel
A profilic writer
An Angelic diva
A musical master
feeling the air with pure emotion
Music was her entire life's devotion
She was an Angel
Her words were magical
Always casting on the crowd a spell
Taking them momentarily
out of their troubled hell
Yes it was written in stars
That she would be something special
She was beautiful
She was wonderful
She was an Angel
Copyright 2005 - Sylvia Chidi

1     When the last faint red of the day is dead,
2         And the dim, far heaven is lit
3             With the silvern cars
4             Of the orient stars,
5         And the winged winds whimper and flit;
6     Then I rise through the dome of my aerodrome,
7         Like a giant eagle in flight;
8             And I take my place
9             In the vengeful race
10       With the sinister fleets of night.
11   As I rise and rise in the cloudy skies,
12       No sound in the silence is heard,
13           Save the lonesome whirr
14           Of my engine's purr,
15       Like the wings of a monster bird.
16   And naught is seen save the vault, serene,
17       Of the vasty realms of night,
18           That vanish, aloof,
19           To eternity's roof,
20       As I mount in my ominous flight.
21   And I float and pause in the fleecy gauze,
22       Like a bird in a nest of down;
23           While 'neath me in deeps
24           Of blackness, sleeps
25       The far, vast London town.
26   But I am not here, like a silvern sphere,
27       To glory the deeps of space,
28           But a sentinel, I,
29           In this tower of the sky,
30       Scanning the dim deep's face.
31   For, sudden, afar, like a luminous star,
32       Or a golden horn of the moon,
33           Or a yellow leaf
34           Of the forest's grief,
35       When the autumn winds are atune;
36   There is borne on my sight, down the spaces of night,
37       By the engines of evilment sped,
38           That wonderful, rare,
39           Vast ship of the air,
40       Beautiful, ominous, dread.
41   One instant she floats, most magic of boats,
42       Illusive, implacable, there;
43           Throned angel of ill,
44           On her crystal-built hill,
45       O'er a people's defenceless despair.
46   Then sudden, I rise, like a bolt through the skies,
47       To the very dim roofs of the world;
48           Till down in the grey,
49           I see my grim prey,
50       Like a pallid gold leaf, uncurled.
51   And I hover and swing, until swiftly I spring,
52       And drop like a falling star;
53           And again and again,
54           My death-dealing rain,
55       Hurl to the deeps afar.
56   Then I hover and listen, till I see the far glisten
57       Of a flame-flash blanching the night;
58           And I know that my hate,
59           That has lain in wait,
60       Has won in the grim air-fight.
61   Then I curve and slant, while my engines pant,
62       And the wings of my great bird tame;
63           While the sinister Hun,
64           In his ill, undone,
65       Goes out in a blinding flame.

We, unaccustomed to courage
exiles from delight
live coiled in shells of loneliness
until love leaves its high holy temple
and comes into our sight
to liberate us into life.
Love arrives
and in its train come ecstasies
old memories of pleasure
ancient histories of pain.
Yet if we are bold,
love strikes away the chains of fear
from our souls.
We are weaned from our timidity
In the flush of love's light
we dare be brave
And suddenly we see
that love costs all we are
and will ever be.
Yet it is only love
which sets us free.

Anger and jealousy are siblings both self destructive in their own way
Of the damage they give rise to we hear and read of every day
In assaults and murder and every violent sort of crime
So many people because of them in prison serving time
Anger and jealousy to assertiveness different in every way
That only does seem a fair thing to say
Those who are assertive speak with a clear mind
To outbursts of anger they are not inclined
Jealousy and anger out of control
Blocks out the light from the windows of the soul
Non human friendly that cannot be denied
Worse flaws by far than even arrogance and pride
To violence and crimes against others they do lead
Anger and jealousy are siblings indeed

There is this angry place
she said
that's been inside me since
my earliest days.
And when I  need
I go there
for power
and resistance.
If ever
someone
hurts me
I let it out
to go free
and kill
or hurt back
and allow
it to take retribution.
It makes me feel strong
It makes me feel not so weak.
Only thing
is it is starting to get out of control.
After getting out
sometimes
it will not go back in
It remains out
and hurt
some people
it shouldn't.
That's the thing
about this Anger
thing
I'm afraid
most times now.
I am not in control.
It is.
Now it is Scary Anger
and I blank out at times
to wake up
shocked to see
what it has done.
I need help with it.

Anger in its time and place
May assume a kind of grace.
It must have some reason in it,
And not last beyond a minute.
If to further lengths it go,
It does into malice grow.
'Tis the difference that we see
'Twixt the serpent and the bee.
If the latter you provoke,
It inflicts a hasty stroke,
Puts you to some little pain,
But it never stings again.
Close in tufted bush or brake
Lurks the poison-swellëd snake
Nursing up his cherished wrath;
In the purlieux of his path,
In the cold, or in the warm,
Mean him good, or mean him harm,
Whensoever fate may bring you,
The vile snake will always sting you.

Anger threatens to steal me away
My soul burns with fire, my sanity strays
My heart beats faster, one single beat
My face reddens sudden from the intense heat
Anger came quickly
As quickly as can be
My thoughts think the worst just wanting to be free
It came so fast I can hardly remember
While my heart beats with rage and a sole burning ember
Anger fell upon me and tore me apart
My brain fries from the burn, from the hurt, from the start
I begin to wonder how much I can endure
As I ball up my hands struggling to gain composure
The storm swells up inside me and wears down everything like erosion
I know soon it will blow
Like a time bomb explosion
A giant volcano, about to blow up
The lava spilling over, ready to erupt
Anger reaches over to a boiling temperature
These feelings all too childish, irresponsible, immature
Anger threatens to take me away, my eyes now to blind
Everything seems red to me, the tint not all too kind
Anger spills out over, through every open space
Giving another memory, that never I can erase

Anger threatens
and bursts throught fast.
The swelling breast
stretches the sinews
of all being.
With strife the builds
of some betrayel clings
to mind, a length
of memory springs
bringing into combat
all focuses of strength.
Restrained the sighing heart
descends the peak,
resting uneasily
and declaring weak.
Sally Plumb
Sally Plumb

deep, dark ocean
womb vortex of secrets
there lies a black pearl
reflecting ominously
the pure ivory
of its parent oyster
there in reign
I lie too
let me lie
disturb not my watery repose
for if i rise
i shall swallow you whole.

As i pase through the unrelaxing motion of hate.. I feel the blood in my body rising like a flood, The tears swelling down my face like unstoppable rain, The anger building up like a tornado and the Blood tricklings from my hands is the motion of an unsovled murder i commited.. i try to study these flash backs with an open steady mind, but then the pain is to deep to uncover the angry pictures i had in my mind.. It felt like i was going to blackout and lose my mind! then the aurguement flares up like a huge flame of fire, then i start to feel like an animal in the jungle looking for it's prey, then i instally attacked my deepest feeling and went out of my mind with an unbearble thrash to my life that i could'nt dare control.. closed my eyes to think deep within the mind and when i woke up i never fulfilled my unsolved nightmare?

There he was positioned in front of the
reflection and through the eyes he senses
the hint of anger.
As he stares he yells,
hands clenched and his voice booming
through the walls of his room.
He yells at his stupidity and his insanity,
of his depression restraining him whole,
he yells at the reflection that's in his way
of what he really was.
Every word he's yelled he's inflicted
on his kids,
every dropp of anger led from abuse he's installed
upon marks of misery on his own flesh and blood.
He points a finger at this madman that stands before him
pointing back,
and tells him that he's nothing,
that his anger is overpowering everything that
he use to be,
that with all the people he should blame
for his unhappiness it should be him
His eyes tell a story of a lonely little
boy inside his depressing heart,
now a grown man with kids of his own and still
he yells in fright.
This battle on his own is slowly wearing down,
because inside he's losing what he had,
that even his daughter at sixteen can't deal with his
prescence being around her because he's so sad.
So he looks with the anger through his eyes he's dead,
but inside he's still that little kid,
so when he burns all his bridges down,
he's gonna be by himself instead.
Touchy subject but I wrote it because of my father.
Thank you for reading.

Know, O dear readers, that the medicine of a disease is to remove the
root cause of that disease. Isa (Jesus Christ) -peace be upon him-
was once asked: 'What thing is difficult?' He said: 'God's wrath.'
Prophet Yahya (John the Baptist) -peace be upon him- then asked:
'What thing takes near the wrath of God?' He said:'Anger'. Yahya -
peace be upon him- asked him:'What thing grows and increases anger?'
Isa -peace be upon him- said:'Pride, prestige, hope for honour and
haughtiness'
The causes which cause anger to grow are self-conceit, self-praise,
jests and ridicule, argument, treachery, too much greed for too much
wealth and name and fame. If these evils are united in a person, his
conduct becomes bad and he cannot escape anger.
So these things should be removed by their opposites. Self-praise is
to be removed by modesty. Pride is to be removed by one's own origin
and birth, greed is to be removed by remaining satisfied with
necessary things, and miserliness by charity.
The prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) said: 'A strong man is not
he who defeats his adversary by wrestling, but a strong man is he who
controls himself at the time of anger.'
We are describing below the medicines of anger after one gets angry.
The medicine is a mixture of knowledge and action. The medicine based
on knowledge is of six kinds:
(1) The first medicine of knowledge is to think over the rewards of
appeasing anger, that have come from the verses of the Quran and the
sayings of the Prophet (pbuh). Your hope for getting rewards of
appeasing anger will restrain you from taking revenge.
(2) The second kind of medicine based on knowledge is to fear the
punishment of God and to think that the punishment of God upon me is
greater than my punishment upon him. If I take revenge upon this man
for anger, God will take revenge upon me on the Judgement Day.
(3) The third kind of medicine of anger based on knowledge is to take
precaution about punishment of enmity and revenge on himself. You
feel joy in having your enemy in your presence in his sorrows, You
yourself are not free from that danger. You will fear that your enemy
might take revenge against you in this world and in the next.
(4) Another kind of medicine based on knowledge is to think about the
ugly face of the angry man, which is just like that of the ferocious
beast. He who appeases anger looks like a sober and learned man.
(5) The fifth kind of medicine based on knowledge is to think that the
devil will advise by saying: ' You will be weak if you do not get
angry!' Do not listen to him!
(6) The sixth reason is to think: ' What reason have I got to get
angry? What Allah wishes has occurred!'
Medicine based on action
When you get angry, say: I seek refuge in God from the accursed evil
(A'oudhou billaahi min as shaytaan ir rajeem). The prophet (pbuh)
ordered us to say thus.
When Ayesha (RA) got angry, he dragged her by the nose and said: ' O
dear Ayesha, say: O God, you are the Lord of my prophet Muhammad,
forgive my sins and remove the anger from my heart and save me from
misguidance.'
If anger does not go by this means, you will sit down if you are
standing, lie down if you are sitting, and come near to earth, as you
have been created of earth. Thus make yourself calm like the earth.
The cause of wrath is heat and its opposite is to lie down on the
ground and to make the body calm and cool.
The prophet (pbuh) said: Anger is a burning coal. Don't you see your
eyebrows wide and eyes reddish? So when one of you feels angry, let
him sit down if standing, and lie down if sitting.
If still anger does not stop, make ablution with cold water or take a
bath, as fire cannot be extinguished without water.
The prophet (pbuh) said : ' When one of you gets angry, let him make
ablution with water as anger arises out of fire.' In another
narration, he said:' Anger comes from the devil and the devil is made
of fire.'
Hazrat Ali (RA) said:
The prophet did not get angry for any action of the world. When any
true matter charmed him, nobody knew it and nobody got up to take
revenge for his anger. HE GOT ANGRY ONLY FOR TRUTH.

Animal is a creature:
A mammal,
Or beast,
Can be a brute,
Or a swine,
At best as a human being...
Known as... a living thing!
Animal is made of:
A flesh,
Some skeletons,
Litters of blood,
A weight of brain,
With gut of feelings...
Excited by... a sexual drive!
Animal is of all sort,
Has different breed,
But one thing is universal...
Survival...is an animal instinct!

Walking 'round my yard, I just wanted to see, if any
little friends wanted company..
I saw Mrs. Robin sitting in a tree, guarding her nest,
and her children three..
She was busy at the moment, and said, ' go visit Mr. Squirrel..
He just broke up with his cute little girl..'
I said, ' how do you do, Mr. Squirrel so blue, I
have some nuts, I'd like to share with you..'
He replied, 'keep the nuts, I don't want to be fed,
I'm feeling so sad, I'm going back to bed..
I left in a hurry to catch Mr. Rabbit, he was hopping along,
in his usual habit..  I said, 'hi Mr. Rabbit good to see you,
He replied, good to see you too but I got a lot of work to do..
As I strolled around the house, I saw the Groundhog,
and the Grouse..  The were both very busy, so I went
to see Mrs. Mouse..  Mrs. Mouse is usually home, 'cause
she rarely leaves the house..  She put a sign on the wall,
that was flapping in the breeze..  It read, ' Open House Today,
please bring your own cheese..' No one today wants to
talk or play.. I guess I'll read a book.. But first let me see,
if the Animals are all safe.. It's worth a second look..

We
are animals.
Having the
same instincts
as any animal.
Law of the
jungle courses
through our
veins.
Hormones flush
clouding
judgement, wrecking
havoc on reason
and intellect.
Procreation,
self preservation
strongest of
animal
instincts.
Sex and violence
dominates
human culture.
We think
ourselves
superior
sophisticated.
Biology
millions
of years in
the making.
Civilization
thousands
of years in
the making.
Conflicting,
struggling
to peacefully
coexist.

It is not human trafficking.

Dreams I have we can stop animal cruelty.
Dear Lord, please will you grant me a wish that
the perpetrators of cruelty to twelve thousand caged bears in Asia will in the next life be born a bear,
put in a cage for life then drain their bile too from a stomach wound just as they are doing right now!
Thank you Dear God.

Poets are imagery animals
Wait for thoughts arrival
Think a lot and then write
Use head more to ignite
Thoughts are burnt
Wish ashes to turn
Into new form to upraise
The status to be up and praised
But normally they are quiet
Allow things to let
Down at low level
With proper time to excel
Now millions come up like flowers
Even without rainy showers
They are product of fast age
Not much to impress with each page
One in million stars is praised
Taken to recognition and believed
Poets are known as star family
Twinkle little in their own capacity
Not all may be able to speak with authority
Some may define imagery love and some may praise almighty
Some may put with all the times to remember and some with variety
It is all about poets tenure and may not be remembered like deity
It is their job to create pure imagination
Sometimes to be painted with correct relation
Not all the incidences pure images
Some ideas are meant to take out souls from the cages
It is reasonable stand to expose
To be known as poet and pose
With whatever capacity and thrust
The poet's position is commendable and is must

Some people say man is social animal
He has to act liberal and mix with people
He may be guided by some belief
As it may be providing some relief
The religion is separate thing
It is personal like thing
One should never discuss it in public
Whether idols, special items are called relic
Human mind has escape route
He may kill person or shoot
Yet he may bow down before god
And repent for whatever good or bad
It gives some solace
Person should bear no double face
It gives cruel impression of being bad
The face lines are easily read
So think whatever you feel like
But never express openly your dislike
It angers another person for harsh words
Even raising stick in air frightens the birds
The love is universal
It can not find immediate dismissal
It is reciprocated with equal zeal
As it speaks of good and senses real

I’m the only elephant in Phnomh Penh
No more of my kind you’ll see
My wife ran off from the killing fields
She’s an animal refugee
I’m a Mekong crocodile from Vietnam
When the napalm scorched each tree
I swam to Laos at dead of night
I’m an animal refugee
I’m a slithery snake from Angkor Wat
Where the mountains churned the sea
Now tourists squat in my habitat
I’m an animal refugee
When people’s homes are ripped apart
There’s appeals on world TV
No one saves us. There’s little fuss
For an animal refugee.

The animals in the zoo must be taken care of,
but the Zoo Director who does it is not an animal.
He's studied the ideal diet of every species,
but he doesn't dine on hay or raw, red meat.
The animals roar or pace all day in their cages.
He too stays at the zoo, in his office,
but he has the run of the compound,
and at night goes home.

A baby boy is born, a sweet, innocent black baby boy.
comes to this world as a –child—not a toy.
His needs will be different for he is a black male.
Proper nurturing is crucial to keep him out of jail.
He must know society considers him a stereotype.
Lazy, drug user, sexually motivated, full of hype.
Speak gently with loving words for him to hear
Teach him to be strong, yet gentle enough to shed a tear
Put a smile on his face with your warm embrace.
Respect him, love him, teach him to have good taste
What you see is what you get in your baby boys eyes
He may follow in your footsteps, don’t be surprised
Teach him with patience, no need for raised voices
He must know how to make all the right choices
The word “no” is prevalent when raising a boy.
He must know what it means when he seeks a certain joy.
A mama is put on a pedestal from a male perspective
when she falls, it shatters his number one directive
Let him know on a daily basis that he is your special joy
a gift from God, a blessed black baby boy.

Baby boy, you’re all I ever think about.
Your there, stuck in my head
I see you… I see you in my mind
And I feel you in my heart
Baby boy, I need you here by my side
Thinking about you just isn’t enough
I want you… Not only in my dreams
But in reality as well
Baby boy, Come to me
Make love to me
Stay here… with me
Baby boy, open up your heart to me
Tell me you feel for me,
The way I feel for you
Let me know that you love me, too
Baby boy…
I’m still waiting..
Waiting here for you…

She was a precious little angel that
Came into their lives one wonderful day
Nothing could have made them happier
Or delighted that she came to stay
Beautiful sweet smile on her face
That came almost immediately
Their hearts were filled to the brim
Their lives changed so drastically
Her family all surrounded her
For much love and pride they felt
They couldn’t get enough of her
As in their arms this child they held
And as she grew and changed
Her personality was so unique
Her talent for drawing obvious
Their praise she loved to receive
And of course their love continues
Though she’s not Baby Marcia anymore
But their lives changed very quickly
When she came through their front door!

When you were created, I knew I had found it.
The angel face, and beauty all around it.
Your heart is a creation of wonder.
And, how you came to be, I still ponder.
But, Lilly, you are the joy of my day.
A miracle, in each and every way.
With a beautiful light to your eyes,
like your mother's: stars in the skies.
Like the flower you are named,
may you never be tamed.
Your life is too free.
Like your love from me.

Dearest Baby,
My heart is broken.
Something terrible has happened,
And as a result, you have died.
I loved you so much;
I wanted you so much...
From the minute,
I knew of your existence,
I had special plans for us.
I imagined what you may have looked like,
And all the happy things we might have done.
You were SO special to me...
My heart cries out from the loss of you.
I relive that moment again and again
In my mind's eye,
And I cringe...
Because it was so horrible.
No one knew of your existence....
You were even more special to me,
Because of my secret.
I kept you to myself and it seemed,
As though we were one.
Only I knew of you....
Only I loved you.
Then that awful day came,
When my world was shattered,
And you died.
All at once,
My world came crashing down.
You died and there was not a thing,
I could have done to have stopped it.
Losing my precious baby boy,
Rips through me like a knife.
Now my baby boy is gone...
I'll never hold him...
I'll never sing him quiet lullabies...
My arms will be empty without him.
Baby, you were so special to me.
You grew beneath my heart
And I felt such a closeness to you.
Now all that is gone...
I cry so many tears
Because I lost you.
I ache for all that cannot be.
I often wish there was a way...
To have my baby boy back-
But he is gone - forever lost to me.
I'll say a prayer for you, baby boy,
And ask God to keep you safe.
I'll never hold you,
But I would have loved you.
My heart swells with the love,
I still carry for you.
I must say goodbye, Baby.
Know that a part of me,
Remains with you always,
For I loved you so greatly,
And once you and I were one.
And I will always remember,
That once you were mine,
My Baby Son.
(January 19,1998)

“I love you baby”
I whisper
As you leave for work.
“I love you too, darlin”
You reply.
“I love you baby”
I whisper
When we make love.
“I love you too, darlin”
You reply.
“I miss you, baby…”
I whisper
“…When you’re gone.”
“I miss you more, darlin”
You reply.
“I love you baby”
I whisper
Each night, and kiss your cheek
“And I love you, darlin”
You reply,
And kiss my face
Before I dream.
“I love you baby”
You whisper
In my dreams
“I love you too, darlin”
I reply

Maybe I love someone, and maybe I don’t
Maybe il tell him so, and maybe I wont.
Maybe im heartbroken, and he doesn’t see
That I need to leave him if il ever be free.
Maybe he’s all I think about, all day long.
And maybe without him I just don’t belong
Maybe these words are lies, and im just a whore,
Maybe im love-struck and nothing more
Maybe im the pretty girl you see on tv,
Maybe im the stalker that you wont ever see
Maybe you love me too, and I should tell you
But you kissed me and I knew…
I'm your trophy.

Nature Baby as free as a bird
Nature Baby not speaking a word
Nature Baby living day by day
Nature Baby always floating away. Feeling the soil around my feet
The sun rays beating down with heat
My being feeling like I'm not physically here
And when I look around I'm so much more aware. The energy keeps coming my way
As I buzz through life and play
Nature Baby being free
Nature Baby that is me
That is what is meant to be. Nature Baby gave the garden lots of love and energy
And now the gardens have surrounded me with beauty
And the heavenly scents from each flower in bloom
As we share the space within this big room. Nature Baby as free as a bird
Nature Baby not speaking a word.

the time i dropped your almost body down
down to meet the waters under the city
and run one with the sewage to the sea
what did i know about waters rushing back
what did i know about drowning
or being drowned
you would have been born in winter
in the year of the disconnected gas
and no car
we would have made the thin walk
over the genecy hill into the canada winds
to let you slip into a stranger's hands
if you were here i could tell you
these and some other things
and if i am ever less than a mountain
for your definite brothers and sisters
let the rivers wash over my head
let the sea take me for a spiller of seas
let black men call me stranger always
for your never named sake

While children playing
And parents walking along
Beach is playground now!

I don't know if Poetry Lover
(hereafter called plover,
a shore bird with short tail)
aspires to become a poet
or is your run-of-the-mill
poetaster (google it)
A bird that runs and hides
when it doesn't comprehend
a simple poem like a haiku
and pipes deleted words
like someone demented
come out, plover!

Sitting on the beach chairs
watching the setting sun
holding hands and reminiscing
how it all begun
Sitting on the beach chairs
watching the ships out on the sea
holding hands and smiling
together we're meant to be
Sitting on the beach chairs
watching people walking past
holding hands and knowing
that our love will always last
Sitting on the beach chairs
watching the waves along the shore
holding hands we realize
our love is stronger than before
Sitting on the beach chairs
watching the changing tide
holding hands with happiness
to be by each others side
Sitting on the beach chairs
watching the sunrise
holding hands with tears of joy
there are no more good-byes

I am walking along a street, on soft asphalt,  and
I am sticking heels  into the zebra.
of the marquise on the other side firmly heated up.
the crescent shaped  bun stuffed with the chocolate
is swimming in the shop, from the warmth,
one moment, and I will  wet my legs  at the edge,
and then, I will catch myself crests of wave
swimming of up on down, and  I will  feel  blissful chill.
now, one bend and...welcomes me auriferous familiar
sand.your glasses, are covering with half a face.
but I can see the smile, from a distance,  it is not...
a duplicate...

THE SUNLIGHT glitters keen and bright,
Where, miles away,
Lies stretching to my dazzled sight
A luminous belt, a misty light,
Beyond the dark pine bluffs and wastes of sandy gray.
The tremulous shadow of the Sea!
Against its ground
Of silvery light, rock, hill, and tree,
Still as a picture, clear and free,
With varying outline mark the coast for miles around.
On—on—we tread with loose-flung rein
Our seaward way,
Through dark-green fields and blossoming grain,
Where the wild brier-rose skirts the lane,
And bends above our heads the flowering locust spray.
Ha! like a kind hand on my brow
Comes this fresh breeze,
Cooling its dull and feverish glow,
While through my being seems to flow
The breath of a new life, the healing of the seas!
Now rest we, where this grassy mound
His feet hath set
In the great waters, which have bound
His granite ankles greenly round
With long and tangled moss, and weeds with cool spray wet.
Good-by to Pain and Care! I take
Mine ease to-day
Here where these sunny waters break,
And ripples this keen breeze, I shake
All burdens from the heart, all weary thoughts away.
I draw a freer breath, I seem
Like all I see—
Waves in the sun—the white-winged gleam—
Of sea-birds in the slanting beam—
And far-off sails which flit before the south-wind free.
So when Time’s veil shall fall asunder,
The soul may know
No fearful change, nor sudden wonder,
Nor sink the weight of mystery under,
But with the upward rise, and with the vastness grow.
And all we shrink from now may seem
No new revealing;
Familiar as our childhood’s stream,
Or pleasant memory of a dream
The loved and cherished Past upon the new life stealing.
Serene and mild the untried light
May have its dawning;
And, as in summer’s northern night
The evening and the dawn unite,
The sunset hues of Time blend with the soul’s new morning.
I sit alone; in foam and spray
Wave after wave
Breaks on the rocks which, stern and gray,
Shoulder the broken tide away,
Or murmurs hoarse and strong through mossy cleft and cave.
What heed I of the dusty land
And noisy town?
I see the mighty deep expand
From its white line of glimmering sand
To where the blue of heaven on bluer waves shuts down!
In listless quietude of mind,
I yield to all
The change of cloud and wave and wind
And passive on the flood reclined,
I wander with the waves, and with them rise and fall.
But look, thou dreamer! —wave and shore
In shadow lie;
The night-wind warns me back once more
To where, my native hill-tops o’er,
Bends like an arch of fire the glowing sunset sky.
So then, beach, bluff, and wave, farewell!
I bear with me
No token stone nor glittering shell,
But long and oft shall Memory tell
Of this brief thoughtful hour of musing by the Sea.

When Mother was a young girl,
what would she have felt
to be shown how her life would turn out—
her husband and sons,
and how things went with the family,
later a grandchild dead at 13,
four surviving to bring in
still another generation?
When she was on the beach, say,
in Atlantic City in that picture from the'30s,
skin fair and fresh as apple flesh,
looking into the camera
like a comet at a sky
it's about to cross?
Could she have seen
the crone she is at 85,
Or leaving her beloved east coast
for a life in the midwest?
I don't think so. Nor
the dignity life has conferred upon her
through hard choices
and tears.

ON the beach, at night,
Stands a child, with her father,
Watching the east, the autumn sky.
Up through the darkness,
While ravening clouds, the burial clouds, in black masses spreading,
Lower, sullen and fast, athwart and down the sky,
Amid a transparent clear belt of ether yet left in the east,
Ascends, large and calm, the lord-star Jupiter;
And nigh at hand, only a very little above,
Swim the delicate brothers, the Pleiades.                          10
From the beach, the child, holding the hand of her father,
Those burial-clouds that lower, victorious, soon to devour all,
Watching, silently weeps.
Weep not, child,
Weep not, my darling,
With these kisses let me remove your tears;
The ravening clouds shall not long be victorious,
They shall not long possess the sky- shall devour the stars only in
apparition:
Jupiter shall emerge- be patient- watch again another night- the
Pleiades shall emerge,
They are immortal- all those stars, both silvery and golden, shall
shine out again,                                             20
The great stars and the little ones shall shine out again- they
endure;
The vast immortal suns, and the long-enduring pensive moons, shall
again shine.
Then, dearest child, mournest thou only for Jupiter?
Considerest thou alone the burial of the stars?
Something there is,
(With my lips soothing thee, adding, I whisper,
I give thee the first suggestion, the problem and indirection,)
Something there is more immortal even than the stars,
(Many the burials, many the days and nights, passing away,)
Something that shall endure longer even than lustrous Jupiter,     30
Longer than sun, or any revolving satellite,
Or the radiant brothers, the Pleiades.

that beach where we sit together
beside the sea
where our hands stretch out
to be held again
like yesterday
is actually a vow, a promise
that never shall again
the sea and the earth part
like two lovers taking opposite ways
the sea licks the thighs of the earth
and the earth surrenders
in utter pleasure

Oh, how I missed you, Lonely Beach,
Where I have left my soul,
The rugged rocks surround me,
I sit there, lost, alone.
Before me is the ocean,
The stormy Irish Sea,
It comes to me, I’m part of you,
And know, you’re part of me.
You send a wave to kiss my feet,
And then you back away,
You tantalise, you hypnotise,
You hold me, make me sway.
I grip the rock to steady me,
Lest I fall in too deep,
I’m lost in love for you now,
The way back now, so steep.
Another wave comes crashing,
Bestows a gentle kiss,
And now I get to taste you,
You linger on my lips.
I’m filled now with a passion,
For you, I can’t ignore,
I’m satisfied, contented,
And leave you on the shore.

When the sun rise in the morning
then you shine like a brighten lady
When the moon set in the evening
then you look like a beautiful lady
When I go to bed in the night
then you twinkle like stars
When the cool breeze touches me
then I take care of your love
When you are under my arms
then I tell you how much I love you
When I say my night prayers
then I thank God for giving you to me
When I close my eyes to sleep
then you rest your head on my chest
and listen to my heart beat says you are mine.

Ye lovers of the picturesque, away and see
Beautiful Balmoral, near by the River Dee;
There ye will see the deer browsing on the heathery hills,
While adown their sides run clear sparkling rills.
Which the traveller can drink of when he feels dry,
And admire the dark River Dee near by,
Rolling smoothly and silently on its way,
Which is most lovely to see on a summer day.
There the trout do sport and play
During the live-long summer day;
Also plenty of salmon are there to be seen,
Glittering like silver in the sun's sheen.
And the mountains are rugged and wild to be seen,
But the woodlands are beautiful when Nature's face is green;
There numerous rabbits do gambol all day
Amongst the green scrubbery all lively and gay.
There's one charming spot most magnificent to be seen,
'Tis Balmoral Castle, the Highland Home of our Queen;
The surrounding scenery is enchanting to see,
While near by rolls past the lovely River Dee.
Therefore, ye lovers of the picturesque, away and see
Beautiful Balmoral Castle and its grand scenery,
And the sight will fill your hearts with glee,
As ye walk along the bonnie banks o' the River Dee.

1     Beautiful dreamer, wake unto me,
2     Starlight and dewdrops are waiting for thee;
3     Sounds of the rude world heard in the day,
4     Lull'd by the moonlight have all pass'd a way!
5     Beautiful dreamer, queen of my song,
6     List while I woo thee with soft melody;
7     Gone are the cares of life's busy throng, --
8     Beautiful dreamer, awake unto me!
9     Beautiful dreamer awake unto me!
10   Beautiful dreamer, out on the sea
11   Mermaids are chaunting the wild lorelie;
12   Over the streamlet vapors are borne,
13   Waiting to fade at the bright coming morn.
14   Beautiful dreamer, beam on my heart,
15   E'en as the morn on the streamlet and sea;
16   Then will all clouds of sorrow depart, --
17   Beautiful dreamer, awake unto me!
18   Beautiful dreamer, awake unto me!

It ought to be lovely to be old
to be full of the peace that comes of experience
and wrinkled ripe fulfilment.
The wrinkled smile of completeness that follows a life
lived undaunted and unsoured with accepted lies
they would ripen like apples, and be scented like pippins
in their old age.
Soothing, old people should be, like apples
when one is tired of love.
Fragrant like yellowing leaves, and dim with the soft
stillness and satisfaction of autumn.
And a girl should say:
It must be wonderful to live and grow old.
Look at my mother, how rich and still she is! -
And a young man should think: By Jove
my father has faced all weathers, but it's been a life!

WOMEN sit, or move to and fro- some old,
some young;
The young are beautiful- but the old are more beautiful than the
young.

God's beautiful sky
you hold the earth in place
your friends surround your beautiful face
Your friends the clouds are your beard long
The birds fly through your white fluffy hair
and sing to you a song
You hold the heavens above
and the earth below
I can see you
wherever I go
Your friends the sun and moon
are your eyes and ears
the moon shines bright through the night
to sooth a child's fears
A tree starts as a seed
and grows up really high
but never get to touch their friend
the sky
Your friends the stars above
are your tokens of love
that sometimes shoot across your beautiful face
You can see them up in space
Look at the sky
Cause it is watching you
and when you see a rainbow
Your wishes will come true

I have two beautiful children
Was it excellent? A daughter and a son
The chubby twelve yrs old is Pim
The younger 9 is a bit slim, Pete is the other one
Pim is a lovely funny girl
Her hair is a bit curly curl, she said like her mom
She loves to go to school
And she is very cool, telling me she wants to drum
She has a lot of good friends
Like a choo choo train, her friends at school
B, Manao, Fon, Puen, Tob, Deer and Dae
It’s enough for today, they all are wonderful
Pim is a big fan of MTV
I always see she listens to the song
When she’s home, she turns Television on
MTV of course, cos she loves to sing along
She likes to do some art works
Painting, drawing the bird, folding some origami
Making me lots of beautiful card
Coming straight from her heart, they’re very pretty
Oh dear, saying a lot about Pim
Pete loves to swim and he likes to play
He stays with Ed his father
He has a little brother from his stepmother A
Japanese super heroes he likes
The ones with the light, he loves the most
V 8 I chose for his birthday present
When he turned to 7, n I also gave him some clothes
Pete is a very sweet boy
He keeps his toys very nice on the shelf
He does not look like his sister
But looks like his mother, he’s charming by himself
I love very much my two kids
I try to be strict for their good manners
I hope to see both of them grow
Hoping time pass a bit slow, they can make me pleasure
I have to end my poem right now
I hope they both proud having me as their mother
Teaching them for me is difficult some time
Getting help from Khun Ta Khun Yai, as they called my mother & father

The beautiful American word, Sure,
As I have come into a room, and touch
The lamp's button, and the light blooms with such
Certainty where the darkness loomed before,
As I care for what I do not know, and care
Knowing for little she might not have been,
And for how little she would be unseen,
The intercourse of lives miraculous and dear.
Where the light is, and each thing clear,
separate from all others, standing in its place,
I drink the time and touch whatever's near,
And hope for day when the whole world has that face:
For what assures her present every year?
In dark accidents the mind's sufficient grace.

Beautiful Sun! with thy golden rays,
To God, the wise Creator, be all praise;
For thou nourisheth all the creation,
Wherever there is found to be animation.
Without thy heat we could not live,
Then praise to God we ought to give;
For thou makest the fruits and provisions to grow,
To nourish all creatures on earth below.
Thou makest the hearts of the old feel glad,
Likewise the young child and the lad,
And the face of Nature to look green and gay,
And the little children to sport and play.
Thou also givest light unto the Moon,
Which certainly is a very great boon
To all God's creatures here below,
Throughout the world where'er they go.
How beautiful thou look'st on a summer morn,
When thou sheddest thy effulgence among the yellow corn,
Also upon lake, and river, and the mountain tops,
Whilst thou leavest behind the most lovely dewdrops!
How beautiful thou seem'st in the firmament above,
As I gaze upon thee, my heart fills with love
To God, the great Creator, Who has placed thee there,
Who watches all His creatures with an eye of care!
Thou makest the birds to sing on the tree,
Also by meadow, mountain, and lea;
And the lark high poised up in air,
Carolling its little song with its heart free from care.
Thou makest the heart of the shepherd feel gay
As he watches the little lambkins at their innocent play;
While he tends them on the hillside all day,
Taking care that none of them shall go astray.
Thou cheerest the weary traveller while on his way
During the livelong summer day,
As he admires the beautiful scenery while passing along,
And singing to himself a stave of a song.
Thou cheerest the tourist while amongst the Highland hills,
As he views their beautiful sparkling rills
Glittering like diamonds by the golden rays,
While the hills seem to offer up to God their praise.
While the bee from flower to flower does roam
To gather honey, and carry it home;
While it hums its little song in the beautiful sunshine,
And seemingly to thank the Creator divine --
For the honey it hath gathered during the day,
In the merry month of May,
When the flowers are in full bloom,
Also the sweet honeysuckle and the broom.
How beautiful thy appearance while setting in the west,
Whilst encircled with red and azure, 'tis then thou look'st best!
Then let us all thank God for thy golden light
In our prayers every morning and night!

Rapt with the rage of mine own ravish'd thought,
Through contemplation of those goodly sights,
And glorious images in heaven wrought,
Whose wondrous beauty, breathing sweet delights
Do kindle love in high-conceited sprights;
I fain to tell the things that I behold,
But feel my wits to fail, and tongue to fold.
Vouchsafe then, O thou most Almighty Spright,
From whom all gifts of wit and knowledge flow,
To shed into my breast some sparkling light
Of thine eternal truth, that I may show
Some little beams to mortal eyes below
Of that immortal beauty, there with thee,
Which in my weak distraughted mind I see;
That with the glory of so goodly sight
The hearts of men, which fondly here admire
Fair seeming shews, and feed on vain delight,
Transported with celestial desire
Of those fair forms, may lift themselves up higher,
And learn to love, with zealous humble duty,
Th' eternal fountain of that heavenly beauty.
Beginning then below, with th' easy view
Of this base world, subject to fleshly eye,
From thence to mount aloft, by order due,
To contemplation of th' immortal sky;
Of the soare falcon so I learn to fly,
That flags awhile her fluttering wings beneath,
Till she herself for stronger flight can breathe.
Then look, who list thy gazeful eyes to feed
With sight of that is fair, look on the frame
Of this wide universe, and therein reed
The endless kinds of creatures which by name
Thou canst not count, much less their natures aim;
All which are made with wondrous wise respect,
And all with admirable beauty deckt.
First th' earth, on adamantine pillars founded,
Amid the sea engirt with brazen bands;
Then th' air still flitting, but yet firmly bounded
On every side, with piles of flaming brands,
Never consum'd, nor quench'd with mortal hands;
And last, that mighty shining crystal wall,
Wherewith he hath encompassed this All.
By view whereof it plainly may appear,
That still as every thing doth upward tend,
And further is from earth, so still more clear
And fair it grows, till to his perfect end
Of purest beauty it at last ascend;
Air more than water, fire much more than air,
And heaven than fire, appears more pure and fair.
Look thou no further, but affix thine eye
On that bright, shiny, round, still moving mass,
The house of blessed gods, which men call sky,
All sow'd with glist'ring stars more thick than grass,
Whereof each other doth in brightness pass,
But those two most, which ruling night and day,
As king and queen, the heavens' empire sway;
And tell me then, what hast thou ever seen
That to their beauty may compared be,
Or can the sight that is most sharp and keen
Endure their captain's flaming head to see?
How much less those, much higher in degree,
And so much fairer, and much more than these,
As these are fairer than the land and seas?
For far above these heavens, which here we see,
Be others far exceeding these in light,
Not bounded, not corrupt, as these same be,
But infinite in largeness and in height,
Unmoving, uncorrupt, and spotless bright,
That need no sun t' illuminate their spheres,
But their own native light far passing theirs.
And as these heavens still by degrees arise,
Until they come to their first Mover's bound,
That in his mighty compass doth comprise,
And carry all the rest with him around;
So those likewise do by degrees redound,
And rise more fair; till they at last arrive
To the most fair, whereto they all do strive.
Fair is the heaven where happy souls have place,
In full enjoyment of felicity,
Whence they do still behold the glorious face
Of the divine eternal Majesty;
More fair is that, where those Ideas on high
Enranged be, which Plato so admired,
And pure Intelligences from God inspired.
Yet fairer is that heaven, in which do reign
The sovereign Powers and mighty Potentates,
Which in their high protections do contain
All mortal princes and imperial states;
And fairer yet, whereas the royal Seats
And heavenly Dominations are set,
From whom all earthly governance is fet.
Yet far more fair be those bright Cherubins,
Which all with golden wings are overdight,
And those eternal burning Seraphins,
Which from their faces dart out fiery light;
Yet fairer than they both, and much more bright,
Be th' Angels and Archangels, which attend
On God's own person, without rest or end.
These thus in fair each other far excelling,
As to the highest they approach more near,
Yet is that highest far beyond all telling,
Fairer than all the rest which there appear,
Though all their beauties join'd together were;
How then can mortal tongue hope to express
The image of such endless perfectness?
Cease then, my tongue, and lend unto my mind
Leave to bethink how great that beauty is,
Whose utmost parts so beautiful I find;
How much more those essential parts of his,
His truth, his love, his wisdom, and his bliss,
His grace, his doom, his mercy, and his might,
By which he lends us of himself a sight.
Those unto all he daily doth display,
And shew himself in th' image of his grace,
As in a looking-glass, through which he may
Be seen of all his creatures vile and base,
That are unable else to see his face,
His glorious face which glistereth else so bright,
That th' Angels selves cannot endure his sight.
But we, frail wights, whose sight cannot sustain
The sun's bright beams when he on us doth shine,
But that their points rebutted back again
Are dull'd, how can we see with feeble eyne
The glory of that Majesty Divine,
In sight of whom both sun and moon are dark,
Compared to his least resplendent spark?
The means, therefore, which unto us is lent
Him to behold, is on his works to look,
Which he hath made in beauty excellent,
And in the same, as in a brazen book,
To read enregister'd in every nook
His goodness, which his beauty doth declare;
For all that's good is beautiful and fair.
Thence gathering plumes of perfect speculation,
To imp the wings of thy high-flying mind,
Mount up aloft through heavenly contemplation,
From this dark world, whose damps the soul so blind,
And, like the native brood of eagles' kind,
On that bright Sun of Glory fix thine eyes,
Clear'd from gross mists of frail infirmities.
Humbled with fear and awful reverence,
Before the footstool of his majesty
Throw thyself down, with trembling innocence,
Ne dare look up with corruptible eye
On the dread face of that great Deity,
For fear, lest if he chance to look on thee,
Thou turn to nought, and quite confounded be.
But lowly fall before his mercy seat,
Close covered with the Lamb's integrity
From the just wrath of his avengeful threat
That sits upon the righteous throne on high;
His throne is built upon eternity,
More firm and durable than steel or brass,
Or the hard diamond, which them both doth pass.
His sceptre is the rod of righteousness,
With which he bruiseth all his foes to dust,
And the great Dragon strongly doth repress,
Under the rigour of his judgement just;
His seat is truth, to which the faithful trust,
From whence proceed her beams so pure and bright
That all about him sheddeth glorious light:
Light far exceeding that bright blazing spark
Which darted is from Titan's flaming head,
That with his beams enlumineth the dark
And dampish air, whereby all things are read;
Whose nature yet so much is marvelled
Of mortal wits, that it doth much amaze
The greatest wizards which thereon do gaze.
But that immortal light, which there doth shine,
Is many thousand times more bright, more clear,
More excellent, more glorious, more divine,
Through which to God all mortal actions here,
And even the thoughts of men, do plain appear;
For from th' eternal truth it doth proceed,
Through heavenly virtue which her beams do breed.
With the great glory of that wondrous light
His throne is all encompassed around,
And hid in his own brightness from the sight
Of all that look thereon with eyes unsound;
And underneath his feet are to be found
Thunder and lightning and tempestuous fire,
The instruments of his avenging ire.
There in his bosom Sapience doth sit,
The sovereign darling of the Deity,
Clad like a queen in royal robes, most fit
For so great power and peerless majesty,
And all with gems and jewels gorgeously
Adorn'd, that brighter than the stars appear,
And make her native brightness seem more clear.
And on her head a crown of purest gold
Is set, in sign of highest sovereignty;
And in her hand a sceptre she doth hold,
With which she rules the house of God on high,
And manageth the ever-moving sky,
And in the same these lower creatures all
Subjected to her power imperial.
Both heaven and earth obey unto her will,
And all the creatures which they both contain;
For of her fullness which the world doth fill
They all partake, and do in state remain
As their great Maker did at first ordain,
Through observation of her high behest,
By which they first were made, and still increast.
The fairness of her face no tongue can tell;
For she the daughters of all women's race,
And angels eke, in beauty doth excel,
Sparkled on her from God's own glorious face,
And more increas'd by her own goodly grace,
That it doth far exceed all human thought,
Ne can on earth compared be to aught.
Ne could that painter (had he lived yet)
Which pictured Venus with so curious quill,
That all posterity admired it,
Have portray'd this, for all his mast'ring skill;
Ne she herself, had she remained still,
And were as fair as fabling wits do feign,
Could once come near this beauty sovereign.
But had those wits, the wonders of their days,
Or that sweet Teian poet, which did spend
His plenteous vein in setting forth her praise,
Seen but a glimpse of this which I pretend,
How wondrously would he her face commend,
Above that idol of his feigning thought,
That all the world should with his rhymes be fraught.
How then dare I, the novice of his art,
Presume to picture so divine a wight,
Or hope t' express her least perfection's part,
Whose beauty fills the heavens with her light,
And darks the earth with shadow of her sight?
Ah, gentle Muse, thou art too weak and faint
The portrait of so heavenly hue to paint.
Let angels, which her goodly face behold
And see at will, her sovereign praises sing,
And those most sacred mysteries unfold
Of that fair love of mighty heaven's King;
Enough is me t' admire so heavenly thing,
And being thus with her huge love possest,
In th' only wonder of herself to rest.
But whoso may, thrice happy man him hold,
Of all on earth whom God so much doth grace
And lets his own beloved to behold;
For in the view of her celestial face
All joy, all bliss, all happiness, have place;
Ne aught on earth can want unto the wight
Who of herself can win the wishful sight.
For she, out of her secret treasury,
Plenty of riches forth on him will pour,
Even heavenly riches, which there hidden lie
Within the closet of her chastest bower,
Th' eternal portion of her precious dower,
Which mighty God hath given to her free,
And to all those which thereof worthy be.
None thereof worthy be, but those whom she
Vouchsafeth to her presence to receive,
And letteth them her lovely face to see,
Whereof such wondrous pleasures they conceive,
And sweet contentment, that it doth bereave
Their soul of sense, through infinite delight,
And them transport from flesh into the spright.
In which they see such admirable things,
As carries them into an ecstasy,
And hear such heavenly notes, and carollings
Of God's high praise, that fills the brazen sky;
And feel such joy and pleasure inwardly,
That maketh them all worldly cares forget,
And only think on that before them set.
Ne from thenceforth doth any fleshly sense,
Or idle thought of earthly things, remain;
But all that erst seem'd sweet seems now offence,
And all that pleased erst now seems to pain;
Their joy, their comfort, their desire, their gain,
Is fixed all on that which now they see;
All other sights but feigned shadows be.
And that fair lamp, which useth to inflame
The hearts of men with self-consuming fire
Thenceforth seems foul, and full of sinful blame;
And all that pomp to which proud minds aspire
By name of honour, and so much desire,
Seems to them baseness, and all riches dross,
And all mirth sadness, and all lucre loss.
So full their eyes are of that glorious sight,
And senses fraught with such satiety,
That in nought else on earth they can delight,
But in th' aspect of that felicity,
Which they have written in their inward eye;
On which they feed, and in their fastened mind
All happy joy and full contentment find.
Ah, then, my hungry soul, which long hast fed
On idle fancies of thy foolish thought,
And, with false beauty's flatt'ring bait misled,
Hast after vain deceitful shadows sought,
Which all are fled, and now have left thee nought
But late repentance through thy follies prief;
Ah cease to gaze on matter of thy grief:
And look at last up to that sovereign light,
From whose pure beams all perfect beauty springs,
That kindleth love in every godly sprite,
Even the love of God, which loathing brings
Of this vile world and these gay-seeming things;
With whose sweet pleasures being so possest,
Thy straying thoughts henceforth for ever rest.

Squire Adam had two wives, they say,
Two wives had he, for his delight,
He kissed and clypt them all the day
And clypt and kissed them all the night.
Now Eve like ocean foam was white
And Lilith roses dipped in wine,
But though they were a goodly sight
No lady is so fair as mine.
To Venus some folk tribute pay
And Queen of Beauty she is hight,
And Sainte Marie the world doth sway
In cerule napery bedight.
My wonderment these twain invite,
Their comeliness it is divine,
And yet I say in their despite,
No lady is so fair as mine.
Dame Helen caused a grievous fray,
For love of her brave men did fight,
The eyes of her made sages fey
And put their hearts in woeful plight.
To her no rhymes will I indite,
For her no garlands will I twine,
Though she be made of flowers and light
No lady is so fair as mine.
L'Envoi
Prince Eros, Lord of lovely might,
Who on Olympus dost recline,
Do I not tell the truth aright?
No lady is so fair as mine.

The beauty of a Summer's day begins
Watching the bright, morning sun rise,
Dew upon the lawn and roses,
And the early flight of colorful butterflies.
The beauty of a Summer's day
Is an attractive and picturesque one,
A sky of a variable color of pale to light blue,
And sport and entertainment for everyone.
The beauty of a Summer's day
Is stetched with green foliage on the hill,
And colorful wildflowers bordering the roadway,
The water wheel turning at the grist mill.
The beauty of a Summer's day increases
Watching the rolling waves of the ocean,
Sea shells washing upon the sandy shore,
And gazing at the sea gulls gliding in slow motion.
The finality of a Summer's day
Is depicted with memorable scenes
Of picnicking, camping, swimming, and traveling,
Reserved for Summer enthusiasts for future dreams.

The beautiful, the fair, the elegant,
Is that which pleases us, says Kant,
Without a thought of interest or advantage.
I used to watch men when they spoke of beauty
And measure their enthusiasm. One
An old man, seeing a ()  setting sun,
Praised it ()  a certain sense of duty
To the calm evening and his time of life.
I know another man that never says a Beauty
But of a horse; ()
Men seldom speak of beauty, beauty as such,
Not even lovers think about it much.
Women of course consider it for hours
In mirrors; ()
A shrapnel ball -
Just where the wet skin glistened when he swam -
Like a fully-opened sea-anemone.
We both said 'What a beauty! What a beauty, lad'
I knew that in that flower he saw a hope
Of living on, and seeing again the roses of his home.
Beauty is that which pleases and delights,
Not bringing personal advantage - Kant.
But later on I heard
A canker worked into that crimson flower
And that he sank with it
And laid it with the anemones off Dover.

Drunken mystics
Reveal simple truths
Like the fragility
Of child-like hearts;
But if you shun
Broken, street poets
For a penthouse view
And the Arts and Entertainment section
Of the Wall Street Journal,
You will never perceive
The delicate beauty
Of humanity in decline.

Looking over the fields towards the Sun,
Observing that the rain had just begun,
A freshness seemed to permeate the air,
And all that one could do was, stand and stare,
As something magical crept across the skies,
A vision that was reflected in my eyes.
A sight of infinite beauty, there to see,
One of the wonders given to us, for free.
Lovely colours blending, like a dream,
In subtle hues, an arched rainbow supreme.
©   Ernestine Northover

Some say beauty is only skin deep, and to some this may apply.
Outward appearance is not real beauty, I'll tell you the reason why.
For true beauty lies within the soul, and comes from the heart.
It comes not from what can be seen of us, but what we may impart.  True beauty is not how we may adorn ourselves, others to impress.
The true beauty of each of us, lies deep within our breast.
If we let Jesus Christ dwell in our heart, and evermore abound.
Peace, Love, and beauty that comes from the Lord, will everywhere be found.

If Beauty thus be clouded with a frown,
That pity shines no comfort to my bliss,
And vapors of disdain so overfrown,
That my life's light thus wholy darken'd is,
Why should I more molest the world with cries,
The air with sighs, the earth below with tears?
Since I live hateful to those ruthless eyes,
Vexing with untun'd moan her dainty ears;
If I have lov'd her dearer than my breath,
My breath that calls the heav'ns to witness it,
And still must hold her dear till after death;
And if that all this cannot move a whit,
Yet let her say that she hath done me wrong,
To use me thus and know I lov'd so long.

There was intoxication in the air;
The wind, keen blowing from across the seas,
O'er leagues of new-ploughed land and heathery leas,
Smelt of wild gorse whose gold flamed everywhere.
And undertone of song pulsed far and near,
The soaring larks filled heaven with ecstasies,
And, like a living clock among the trees,
The shouting cuckoo struck the time of year.
For now the Sun had found the earth once more,
And woke the Sleeping Beauty with a kiss;
Who thrilled with light of love in every pore,
Opened her flower-blue eyes, and looked in his.
Then all things felt life fluttering at their core--
The world shook mystical in lambent bliss.

If you believe in what you do
you will succeed in it
come today or tomorrow.
Success is always something
everyone else seems to have,
but if you believe in yourself
then you will succeed.
Whether it be money or friends
or whatever you want.
To succeed you must first believe.
31 January 2008

Believe Me - God gave us the wisdom to know
Believe Me - His wisdom is far greater than gold
Believe Me - Our Creator knew us before we were born
Believe Me - By grace we are linked to divinity
Believe Me - His divine beings are there for you and me Believe Me - There is one Creator in the universe
Believe Me - He is Father of the human race
Believe Me - When the world proclaims and honors his name
Believe Me - The world will be rich with compassion and fame Believe Me - When our relationship with God is A-1
Believe Me - God told us I take care of my own
Believe Me - I know that I know that I know
Believe Me - Believe me - Believe me

Show me that you love me
But do not speak a word
Show me that you long for me
Without a sound being heard
Let your eyes seduce me
Entice me with your stare
Lovingly caress me
Let you hands show you care
Show me that you love me
Let your body language talk
Anyone can speak the words
But can you walk the walk?
Let your passion connect me
To the love your offering tonight
Share your true intentions
Baby, let’s do this right
Show me that you love me
Wear your heart upon your sleeve
Silent without words
Can you make me believe?

Heart, believe me.
That was just a night...
How fool it is for my mind
to linger his words this way;
to trace every curve of his lips
and to flip a shadow of his pretty hair.
Oh, how fool it is for my mind
to think of him this way.
Heart, believe me.
That was just a night;
and I became a fool forever.

I believe in yesterdays with fine tunes
Where new spring came through in fineness's touch
Where love song were sung 'I love you so much'
And feelings meant all in its afternoons
Sweet summer come back with those pretty things
That filled my longings in its stillness time
With inspirational blossoms in their prime
And still to my heart for always here sings
Rain is now outside and dripping all wet
Filling my emotions with a sullen sky
That never seems ending - day after day
Where are the red flowers my heart once met?
Give me back the dreams of blue darling's sky
Those only are memories - still far away

I believe.
I believe that He was born for me.
I believe that He forgave me long ago.
I believe.
I believe that I will grow stronger with each passing day.
I believe that my soul is worthy, of the love that we have, should we pray.
I believe that His spirit is within me.
Lest I should falter or fall,
I believe that He rose again to save,
not only for you but for us all.
I believe that my life is precious,
one worth saving, no matter the cost.
I believe He came to save my soul,
no matter the things that I have lost.
I believe in His love.
I believe in His spirit.
I believe in His grace.
I believe in His holiness.
I believe.

did they really think they could just take it all away
with just one word
did they think I would not fight
do they really think I gave a shit what they thought?
can they really be that stupid
do they really want me to be unhappy for the rest of my life?
cause that is what would happen if I listen to them
I can't believe it
I’ve suffered for 4 years
I now found happiness
do they think I wouldn't fight to keep it
how could they think that?
are they really that blind
do they not see I’m happier than I’ve ever been
truth is I’ve never been happy
until now
and I don't want to lose it
especial because they don't like the way I found it
can't they just be happy?
can't they just let me be happy?
apparently not
some family
they don't want me happy
they fucking want me trapped
trapped in the darkness
trapped with them
trapped is a state of numbness

I want – I wish to believe
The old tale’s – the ballad’s words,
How the sunny knight cuts
The monsters nine heads off…
Just at one stroke of his sword!

To believe this thing isn't perfect is to believe it never was perfect! And to believe it never was perfect or is perfect is to believe it never could be, will be, would be, and to some degree, should be! Believe in the perfection of life! Peace, love, joy, goodness, grace, tender-mercy etc. Life, Peace, Nature, You, Me, All is and or are perfect forever! Health and or the universe is perfect! You know peace because you experience peace and are peace! What you discover you are, what you are you discover and or know already to be true! same is true with finding! and love! Peace is everything! Everything is peace! To believe that it isn't or never was perfect but that it will be perfect is to believe in something other than nature and or to believe deceptively or double-mindedly in the truth! It is to fall away from nature relatively and or absolutely! What is new is truly old! What is truly old is new! What is truly new is old! What is truly old is new.. forever! Life is, was, should be, will continue to be perfect forever! - Joshua Aaron Guillory

SAINT THYAGARAJA
BRIEF INTRODUCTION
The Saint Thyagaraja was born on the 4th May,1767
at Tiruvarur, Tanjore District, South India. He came to
lead the mankind in the spiritual path through the medium
of Classical Music, purely devoted to Lord Rama.  He had
composed classical songs in thousands during his life time,
which are still very popular through out the world.
During the period of Vijayanagar Empire in the Central India,
which broke down due to frequent invasions from the North
India, his ancestors took asylum in the Kingdom ruled by
Maratha Nayak in South India. With this brief introduction
his life story follows:
SAINT THYAGARAJA
(04-05-1767 to 06-01-1847)
The year seventeen-sixty-seven,
Witnessed the divine sanction
From the Merciful Heaven
For a great saint, who was born.
It was on the fourth day,
In the month of May,
This saint took his birth
On this mundane earth.
The Temple Town Tiruvarur,
Of the District Thanjavur,
Became the chosen land,
To welcome this child.
True to their own custom
He was given the name
Thyagaraja, the Lord
Of this Temple God.
‘Thyaga, ’ a word for ‘sacrifice’
‘Raja’ for ‘King or Prince, ’
Thyagaraja, as his name stood,
Lived in austerity till his end.
He was the third son,
The most illustrious one,
Of Ramabrahmam, his father,
And Seethamma, his mother.
The King of Thanjavur
Patronized his father,
A story teller by profession,
And an exponent of Ramayan.
As a daughter of a Veena player,
Kalahastayya, a royal court performer,
Music was in Seethamma's blood
And he grew up in this background.
(Thanjavur, a place in South India)

DAVID.
What means yon apparition in the sky,
Thirsis, that dazzles every shepherd's eye?
I slumbering was when from yon glorious cloud
Came gliding music heavenly, sweet, and loud,
With sacred raptures which my bosom fires,
And with celestial joy my soul inspires;
It soothes the native horrors of the night,
And gladdens nature more than dawning light.
THIRSIS.
But hold, see hither through the yielding air
An angel comes: for mighty news prepare.
ANGEL GABRIEL.
Rejoice, ye swains, anticipate the morn
With songs of praise; for lo! a Saviour's born.
With joyful haste to Bethlehem repair,
And you will find the almighty infant there;
Wrapp'd in a swaddling band you'll find your king,
And in a manger laid, to him your praises bring.
CHORUS OF ANGELS.
To God who in the highest dwells,
Immortal glory be;
Let peace be in the humble cells
Of Adam's progeny.
DAVID.
No more the year shall wintry horrors bring;
Fix'd in the indulgence of eternal spring,
Immortal green shall clothe the hills and vales,
And odorous sweets shall load the balmy gales;
The silver brooks shall in soft murmurs tell
The joy that shall their oozy channels swell.
Feed on, my flocks, and crop the tender grass,
Let blooming joy appear on every face;
For lo! this blessed, this propitious morn,
The Saviour of lost mankind is born.
THIRSIS.
Thou fairest morn that ever sprang from night,
Or deck'd the opening skies with rosy light,
Well mayst thou shine with a distinguish'd ray,
Since here Emmanuel condescends to stay.
Our fears, our guilt, our darkness to dispel,
And save us from the horrid jaws of hell.
Who from his throne descended, matchless love!
To guide poor mortals to bless'd seats above:
But come without delay, let us be gone,
Shepherd, let's go, and humbly kiss the Son.

I don't care what you say
I don't care how much you deny it
You can't dance your wicked way around the truth anymore
More and more everyday
A crime is being committed
No use in lying, crying or pretending that it ain't happening
Birth control is murder
There!
I said it!
And no way will I take it back
Smothering God's plans for your body beneath your own selfish will is just not right
It's just not holy
It's a sin
That's what it really is
Plain and simple
If you don't want a baby, then for sure there must be something wrong with you
Cos no normal woman would want to take wait or take the chance that never have another shot at that dream
A dream that so many women scream, cry and would even die for
That's why I can't
I just can't understand how so many of you young women can be so selfish
So selfish and cruel that you would't give up a mere 9 months to carry a baby for another woman
No, instead you want to keep that perfect body for your own purposes
No, you would rather spit upon the hopes and dreams of your fellow childless women
Birth control is................MURDER!
Tell me ladies
Just when you are gonna get that through your thick selfish heads?
2008 Ramona Thompson

I tried and tried again
To write a poem from beginning to end.
Though this is what I planned at first.
The night goes on and my writing gets worse.
I decided to print during the night.
It's the only thing that seems to look right.
I know I'll be marked from one to ten,
Are they my teacher's or  my friend.
Crumbled papers gather around my knees,
A glass of water is all I really need.
Laundry's done,  and I had my bath,
Back again, quick as a flash.
Fearful that I'll write a bummer,
Time slips by as I sit and wonder,
Who ever thought that writing a verse,
Would be so hard,  Though math is worse.
Twelve o'clock and all is well,
My head's getting big,  It's starting to swell.
A pen in hand felt like my only friend.
Before I realized it,  I reached the end.

Blind from my birth,
Where flowers are springing
I sit on earth
All dark.
Hark! hark!
A lark is singing.
His notes are all for me,
For me his mirth: -
Till some day I shall see
Beautiful flowers
And birds in bowers
Where all Joy Bells are ringing.

Beyond the long and often lonely wait,
Beset  by urges strange from deep within
Pulsate demands to culminate
In Motherhood
The gasping presence fights with strength supreme,
And bursting bonds of month-long celled restraint
Brings birth power, awesome yet serene
To Motherhood
Wakes new a love unique, and all=consumes
The momentary fret at life's emerge.
Repays with joy in hearts attuned
With Motherhood.
Never cell so warm or sweet the chains
Of jailor's irresistable commands.
Crying everlasting claims
On Motherhood.
Offspring of love, and herald of yet more.
Bequething back inherited content.
Open wide this most rewarding door
Of Motherhood.

Families, when a child is born
Want it to be intelligent.
I, through intelligence,
Having wrecked my whole life,
Only hope the baby will prove
Ignorant and stupid.
Then he will crown a tranquil life
By becoming a Cabinet Minister.

All travellers at first incline
Where'er they see the fairest sign
And if they find the chambers neat,
And like the liquor and the meat,
Will call again, and recommend
The Angel Inn to every friend.
And though the painting grows decay'd,
The house will never lose its trade:
Nay, though the treach'rous tapster, Thomas,
Hangs a new Angel two doors from us,
As fine as daubers' hands can make it,
In hopes that strangers may mistake it,
We think it both a shame and sin
To quit the true old Angel Inn.
Now this is Stella's case in fact,
An angel's face a little crack'd.
(Could poets or could painters fix
How angels look at thirty-six
This drew us in at first to find
In such a form an angel's mind;
And every virtue now supplies
The fainting rays of Stella's eyes.
See, at her levee crowding swains,
Whom Stella freely entertains
With breeding, humour, wit, and sense,
And puts them to so small expense;
Their minds so plentifully fills,
And makes such reasonable bills,
So little gets for what she gives,
We really wonder how she lives!
And had her stock been less, no doubt
She must have long ago run out.
Then, who can think we'll quit the place,
When Doll hangs out a newer face?
Nail'd to her window full in sight
All Christian people to invite.
Or stop and light at Chloe's head,
With scraps and leavings to be fed?
Then, Chloe, still go on to prate
Of thirty-six and thirty-eight;
Pursue your trade of scandal-picking,
Your hints that Stella is no chicken;
Your innuendoes, when you tell us,
That Stella loves to talk with fellows:
But let me warn you to believe
A truth, for which your soul should grieve;
That should you live to see the day,
When Stella's locks must all be gray,
When age must print a furrow'd trace
On every feature of her face;
Though you, and all your senseless tribe,
Could Art, or Time, or Nature bribe,
To make you look like Beauty's Queen,
And hold for ever at fifteen;
No bloom of youth can ever blind
The cracks and wrinkles of your mind:
All men of sense will pass your door,
And crowd to Stella's at four-score.

he was born on a dark lonely night
and not a soul was in sight.
his mother was driving home
on that starry night, when she started
to feel the contractions.
she knew right then that she would
have to take action.
she pulled alongside that old country road
and her stomach she did hold
.
when she felt that waterbag bust
and in GOD she put her trust.
she asked the LORD what she should do
for she knew not what to do.
she heard a voice so soft and gentle
that told her to stay calm.
for this was a special child
that would be born this night
and that everything was  going
to be allright.
she pushed the front seat back
as far as it would go
and took off her clothing so
that she could see.
the pains became so severe
and a head did appear.
she pushed with all her might
so that this child could be free.
for this was the way
it was meant to be.
as the child started to come out
from her lungs came a shout.
this child came out with such ease
and she felt a gentle breeze
as if it was a whisper upon her face
and she knew it was through GODS grace.
with a penknife she cut the cord.
and cleaned him up the best she could.
she wrapped him within her coat
and put the heater on
and drove back to a distant farm.
when she got to the farm
and banged upon the door.
when no one answered
she knealt down on the floor.
again she called upon the LORD
and asked what she should do.
he told her to look towads the barn
for there was a light as bright as day
and the farmer was baling hay.
as she got to the barn door
she collapsed in sheer exhaustion.
when she finally opened up her eyes
on the hay she did lay.
and  beside her lay her child.
and the farmer told her she was
out for quite a while.
but the ambulance was on the way
and that he could not move her
in fear of jeopardizing her life
and that she was cleaned up
by his lovely wife.
now the farmers wife was
a religious woman
who believed that nothing
happens by chance.
and at this child she did glance.
she said that he had an aura
of light above his head
just like the bible which she had read.
she looked at this childs mother
and asked her this:
'is this coincidence or is this
a sign from above
that he would be in a barn
like christ was in the manger?
she recalled that gentle voice and
what it had said.
that a special child would be born on this night.
now you tell me.
was she wrong, or was she right?

The first day you woke me up,
did you open the door
or did I leave it open?
How could you know?
There were blinds
on the windows
and yet you knew
that was the first snow
of a long winter,
“it´s a clear winter morning,
let´s go and enjoy the snow”.
You knew
when to touch my hand
to tell me
life is waiting
let´s go play.
You knew
the best definition
for happiness.
Open your eyes and enjoy.
Let´s go play.
You knew
the exact measure
of truth,
of danger.
The secret
must be
the smell.

When I look upon a photograph.
Not so long ago, not so faded.
A picture of my beloved big brother.
The memories had filled my mind.
The times we cried and the times we laughed.
How brother watches over me,
Makes sure I'm not hurt.
When I was sick, he made my lunch.
We'd go on shopping trips.
We thought we would grow old together.
Through the years we thought it was true.
Brother and I worked on model trains.
Then time had come to call.
My big brother had to go.
He passed away, he went to eternal sleep.
God is holding him as he sleeps.
Until he comes to call.
All I have are memories and a photograph.
In memory of big brother Paul.

“Brother Brother a long time has past 15 years since I’ve seen you last
Your laughter and smile will never die like your spirit that fills the sky
We have to look for your signs ever present in our lives
Your voice echoes in the wind like a whisper from a friend
A shooting star from above a little sign to show me your love
Brother I’m there watching over you like a Guardian Angel
Talk to me I will listen I hear your thoughts and your worries
I feel your pain and your joy my soul has never died
Always keep me in your heart and my memory alive
I will be there to greet you on the other side
Eternal love and friendship “

I love you
Can't you see
How I care
Can't you see
How I die
Die there with you
Can't you see
My pain
Cause it hurts
Yes it hurts
To see you hurt
Yourself
So bad
I love you

sirloin over an open flame
lost its flavor when I went broke
but this handful of coins insists
a hot bowl of soup
will get you where you need to be

Falling through memory's wide open window,
Hitherto kept tightly closed.
I'm flying away into chilhood experience
Where, brother and I were supposed
To be good, while parental strife, flaring
Brightly, would envelope us nightly,
As arms flung round each other
We struggled to sleep,
Despite shouting and fighting
Downstairs, we said pleading prayers
And, always tearful goodnights.
We often cried quietly
Into the darkness my brother and I.
Orphaned from love, we grew close
Together, and clung to each other
Over the ensuing years.
Losing my only beautiful brother
To cancer has emptied and drained
My  lonely heart, despite
Crying rivers of tears.
I reluctantly close that window again
But never will close on my brother, Den.

my brother's so sweet
in times of need he is there
my brother's so responsible
he taught me a lot of things
my brother's so funny
we even teared from laughing
my brother's so fierce
don't mess with him when his angry
my brother fell inlove
and he's very very happy
my brother made up his mind
and had a nice sweet family
my brother is away
i'm sad when i think of it
but my brother's heart is good
and i know he will never forget me.

Oh, brother, my brother
Don't weep;
Though dark clouds
hid the day
and dark clay
filled the roofs;
it will come to pass- soon!
God will see you through.

He stands at a Roundabout,
A white placard of black letters
And with a strap around his neck
It exhibits an advertisement of a new pay loan Center.
The poor chap's dance is very attractive
And I approached him pussyfoot.
I called him; 'Brother, for three things I came to you,
Firstly, you resemble my deceased loving brother once the bread-winner of our poor family.
Secondly, I am very inquisitive about the loan.
Thirdly, I am jobless and seeking a position to survive.
But I cannot dance like you and I am not belong to your soil; a different planet
Where I have come from?
So my dance would be typical and I am scared even to my oblique shadow.
Just imagine dear, when somebody is in hunger what about his dance? '
* my humble dedication to the poetess Dove Allen

As butterflies with beauty grace the air,
so love cannot be lazy in its love;
true love brings lovely energies to bear;
love's actions grace the true contemplative.
devoted action is the path we tread
when stirred at first by love of love's first  cause;
to purge our souls of that we wish us rid;
such tasks may grace our caterpillar days.
humility - which is to know pure self,
seen clearly as the light of bad and good -
brings contemplation's share in godly wealth;
those shining works which are love's neighbourhood;
then we God's goodness, truth and beauty share;
as butterflies with beauty grace the air.

The cat is fascinated!
Stares in wonderment,
Still and silent,
With amazing rounded eyes,
With golden brown hair,
At a pretty butterfly
A rare black and white combination with
An ochre yellow border,
so elegantly shaped,
So artistically decorated,
Searching for a flower
In the grassy bower!
The cat watches in a trance!
The cat debates: "Should she pounce on the butterfly?
Or just chase her around for fun!
Or Should she quietly watch its enchanting movements
Sucking the honey from the flowers? Indeed!
Sensational play of nature's allurement! "
I wonder! Who is more fascinating?
The butterfly or the cat?
I am at a loss! For I love them both!
They are both fabulous creations of God!
Amazing lives that gladdens your heart,
Attractive beings of this beautiful planet!

I strongly believe
With all my heart
That everything happens
For a reason.
One can hardly
Take a breath
Without some form of
Consequence,
Whether good or bad,
Even if you
Are not the one
To experience it.

A butterfly can fly away,
A butterfly can be a kiss,
A butterfly can be such a gaze,
A butterfly can die just like that.
That's what happened to you.
God took you,
Turned you into a butterfly,
And you flew away.
Dedicated to Civanna Carlene Christian.
Ur My Butterfly Princess,
Rest in peace.
By: Kelsey Barnett

Butterfly
Will your wings curl up at the first sign of frost
Butterfly?
Will you hide away when the winter comes
Retreat into your  cocoon
Butterfly?
Will you come when spring dawns?
Will you pretend like you never left?
Butterfly
I want you to remain here with me
Forever
And don't let me be lonely
Don't let me be sad
Because if you must leave me
I'll never find another
Butterfly
You flap your wings in the breeze
Make me oh so happy
Please flap those wings for me
Please stay here with me
And when winter comes
I will keep your wings warm
Butterfly

Vulnerable, soft and fragile
Delicate to the touch
Dodging, ducking, evading
Every attempt to clutch
Indian lore has told me
A butterfly can grant a wish
But first it must be captured
And my desire whispered to it
For the whisper to be granted
The butterfly must be set free
A difficult choice I ponder
Will my butterfly come back me?

spring butterfly
that drunken dance
spring too much for you?
spring butterfly
the only time that matches up
to your colours
spring butterly
this party, such a colourful spread
i would too be drunken
spring butterfly
every colourful cup
a drink from heaven

Butterfly, oh butterfly, why do you hide in the shadows?
Spread wide your wings, let your heart sing
And come dance with me in the meadow
Butterfly, oh butterfly, why do you fear?
You'll never stray, I'll lead the way
Just follow the path, I'll be near
Butterfly, oh butterfly, have you no hope?
Drink of the sun, our life's just begun
Thro time's hills and valleys we'll lope
Butterfly, oh butterfly, dare you to dream?
On our hearts we depend, shall we follow the wind
And consign to the fates grander scheme?

Look, a butterfly. Did you make a wish?
You don't wish on butterflies.
You do so. Did you make one?
Yes.
It doesn't count.

Hey my Girlie! the nursery teacher
you taught me to spell love
and how to love smoothly
instead of nursery rhymes.
It's all over like in a movie.
I am a desperado in a nursing home.
Sitting on an isolated bench
And I recognized you from afar,
Your exceptional smile.
Oh! you are designated as a new Matron to this desperate home.Anyway I hope that you will teach me
Your Toy boy, again the spelling of love
And how to love politely not smoothly as earlier?

Suddenly accelerating the running state
The leaders unexpectedly braked hard
As they treat it a bus old and unrepaired
The passengers like citizens got jerked
Some died, some wounded, some injured
Fortunately the state was not crushed
But stopped partly for a few days
The citizens sighed through sufferings.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza |12/11/2016

Every morning I have to drive towards the sun
just as the sun is about to rise.
You pull down the car sun visor,
but it is always too short
and the sun gets in your eyes.
You cannot see the road ahead,
just yellow blobs before your eyes.
You keep blinking until they fade away.
One day I wish car manufactures
would road test their cars in the morning sun.
They then might make
the car sun visors a little larger
to stop the sun getting in your eyes.
11 February 2008

There are ghosts inside of the engine of my car
And while I am driving my car
I hear some funny noises that the engine of my car is making

To the memory of the Rhodesian Helicopter Pilots and
the 20mm cannon Gunner.Two men one helicopter;
known as K-car…..Killer-car.
A formidable force in the Rhodesian Bush War.
RHODESIAN K-CAR
‘Chopper’ pilot calmness,
Cannon gunner’s skill,
Two minds in perfect harmony,
Flew in now for the kill,
Ten comrades in arms,
Pinned down by enemy fire,
Ambushed and compromised,
Their backs now to the wire.
One pilot and one gunner,
Men who knew no fear,
S.O.S. came through to them,
Urgent… but so clear,
“K-car, Call sign Bravo, ”
“Contact, contact, contact”!
Pilot with nerves of steel,
And veraciously exact,
“We have you visual, four o’clock”,
Crackled in the pilot’s ear
He responded calmly “Roger
Call sign Bravo… illuminate a flare”
Flare lit up and in they flew,
Oblivious of the danger;
Twas deaths turn to roll the dice,
With life their coin of wager.
Two hands upon the cannon grips,
One finger on the trigger,
Gunner’s eye took a site,
Through peep site to the jigger;
Bullets ripped into the cockpit,
Of that killer-car machine,
Barely two year out of school,
K-car gunner… aged nineteen
Fire Force airborne pilot,
Turned cannon to the smoke,
Gunner pressed the trigger,
And the dragon now awoke;
Twenty millimeter cannon,
Boomed forth volcanic life
Spewing deadly rounds,
Of instant death and strife.
No place for enemy to hide,
From this matchless opponent;
Terrorists now in full flight,
Were gunned down in a moment.
The Kill-car hovered overhead,
Just six foot off the ground,
Two enemy lay screaming,
But from thirty dead…no sound.
Most men of war, whom I knew then,
Have turned now to the Lord,
They have turned into plow shears,
Their weapons and their sword.
Lord please teach us here in Africa,
Love for one another;
Take xenophobic intolerance from us,
Teach us to love our brother.

A fool stole my car and damaged it!
And, when he was caught,
A wise man said he will pay twice as much for my car;
Hoping to repair my care and take care ofthe thief.
Then i said: ' I will give this care for free to the thief'!
The thief then answered: 'Oh! If i knew then that, this care will be mine as a gift, i will not have stolen it in the first place';
However, in this life, 'It is better to ask than, to steal'.
So, i got the value of my car being paid twice as much from the wise man;
And, he took the damaged car and the thief away.

I had a dream: you came to me
on purple car, as in a childhood.
Only one driver had a seat -
you gave to me the place of driver.
and then we both went for a walk -
rather, I was driving, you - on foot.
you could say nothing for so long,
watched as a kid, with speechless look.

Selling a Car.
When I bought the car
the dealer pointed out its good features.
Now that I’m selling the car
the dealer points out all its flaws.

The motor car is sullen, like a thing that should not be;
The motor car is master of Smart Society.
’Twas born of sweated genius and collared by a clown;
’Twas planned by Retribution to ride its riders down.
And straight for Caesar’s Column,
It runs to Caesar’s Column,
Last section, Caesar’s Column
To ride its riders down!
The motor car is shame-struck, for greed and misery,
For mad and hopeless self-lust, and the sins that need not be.
The motor car is vicious, for its conscience makes it so,
It aye would smash the victims while it runs the riders low.
And straight for Caesar’s Column,
Its goal is Caesar’s Column,
It longs for Caesar’s Column
To lay its riders low.
The motor car is maddened like a horse that’s had a fright,
The shameful day behind it and the Coming of the Night!
It flees across the country and it flees back to the town
And straight for Caesar’s Column to run its riders down.
And straight for Caesar’s Column,
What ho! for Caesar’s Column!
Hurrah! for Caesar’s Column!
To seal its riders down.
The motor car is reckless like a gambler losing fast;
The motor car’s in terror of the Future—and the Past;
The motor car is worn out and has passed Sin’s boundary by,
And is bound for Caesar’s Column where to pile its riders high.
It’s bound for Caesar’s Column
And marked for Caesar’s Column,
And doomed for Caesar’s Column
To pile its riders high.
The motor car is brainless, and scornful of all tears,
Its dust is in our faces, its giggle in our ears,
Its harsh laugh is the last laugh of the last lost soul alone,
’Tis nearing Caesar’s Column to set self-damned in stone.
Change here for Caesar’s Column!
All out for Caesar’s Column!
Past Hope—and Caesar’s Column
To lodge self-damned in stone.
I don’t know how ’twill happen, or when ’twill come to pass,
But folk shall yet pass sanely by river, tree and grass;
By homesteads and farm wagons, they’ll ride each pleasant mile,
And back from Caesar’s Column where the world went mad awhile.
And back from Caesar’s Column
With lessons from the Column;
Grown sane at Caesar’s Column
To save the world awhile.

Leuconoë, don’t ask, we never know, what fate the gods grant us,
whether your fate or mine, don’t waste your time on Babylonian,
futile, calculations. How much better to suffer what happens,
whether Jupiter gives us more winters or this is the last one,
one debilitating the Tyrrhenian Sea on opposing cliffs.
Be wise, and mix the wine, since time is short: limit that far-reaching hope.
The envious moment is flying now, now, while we’re speaking:
Seize the day, place in the hours that come as little faith as you can.

I looked around and it was the day,
That again will never come;
I could not help it but to sway,
Away from what would make me glum.
I thought that I've been granted life,
And so did life take but for granted;
I thought that time was yet rife,
And had my soul by life enchanted.
My life has passed before my eyes,
As what's alive was just no more;
I've never thought of any goodbyes,
And still of faith was but unsure.
I've seen the green swiftly fly,
As did the gray and too the blue;
I've felt all beauty at once die,
And couldn't stand that morbid view!
I've looked above and did scream,
At a god that there might not be:
'Look down on this scarlet stream,
And speak but of immortality! '
Though life may but immortal seem,
Whilst everything else ceases to be;
It could be nothing more but a dream,
And on the waking verge's just uncertainty!
I woke up thinking of:
'What if the world ends today?
You've had much mirth but it's not enough! '
Then hoped more mirth won't make me stray!

The first night, the best night,
you had me at hello.
We went to your room,
and it was like I'd been there before.
My heart raced, my smile glowed.
We pulled out the cards,
and opened a beer.
Strip poker was not my strength.
Behind a pillow I hid,
behind my wall.
Your lips, my lips,
touched, my heart raced, beating louder then a drum.
I wanted your hands on me,
my hands on you.
We layed on your bed,
and talked long into the morning.
Our bodies embracing,
rubbing.
We didn't need sex,
to enjoy ourselves.
You sparked my heart strings that night,
my walls shifted.
Each time, everytime,
they come down a little more.
Yours are high,
but crumbling along side mine.
Don't let go my friend.
You and I are quite the pair, you know.
I would not shower with just anyone,
nor would I whisper my sweet nothings.
The things I do with you,
I hardly ever share.
If I was willing to try, are you?
If i put my heart on my sleeve,
would you take care?
How am I to believe you, how am I to love you,
and not think you'll be the same, as my first love?
My first love, my hardest love,
my deepest love.
I've never felt such pain,
I could not bare another such as that.
But for you, I'd be willing to try.
Do you believe me when I say, I care for you?
I do.
More then anything, I want to love you,
I want to be there for you.
Can I have your heart?
Share your thoughts with me.
My hearts racing,
Carpe Diem.

Behind every goodbye there is a hope of new hi and
Behind every hi there is a pain of bidding bye sooner or later
The moments of life lies in between that short span
Spread your arms if you long for a hug
Open your heart if it aches for love
Dance and sing until the rain stops
Kiss passionately, if not your beloved at least the wind
Enjoy the beauty of nature in countless ways
Take chances and dare to fail, you will have the second
Forever and never-ending too comes to an end, Wait not
Until the moment arrives, seize and live it.

it’s that
sweat soaked
moment
gripped in
the firm fist
of apprehension
when everything
seems equally
insignificant
except for the
heart in her chest
that moves you
in torrents
and
that burning heart
in your chest that
has finally finished
convalescing
and is ready
to be conquered
again

Why live today for a better after life?
Why waste moments for a fate uncertain?
We've been granted  this existence.
So shall we bow out before the final curtain?
Live today like there is no tomorrow.
For tomorrow does not promise heaven or hell.
There is no paradise or lakes of fire.
And if there was how can you tell?
Live with pride, realise your dreams
and don't waste time on foolish fate.
Because if you die before your wake
are you sure you'll see a pearly gate?
For those who dedicate to follow
rules in the tomes of the manipulative
even if you live in sin
does your God not promise to forgive?
So are we to dine with Gods?
Well I don't not know.
But I refuse to pay pennance
to a landlord who does not show.
I am only assured one life to live
and waste it I shall never.
For I chose to be great today
a goal from which I will not sever.
You can keep Gods and Allah's
You can pray to your invisible friends.
You can prepare for a mythical tomorrow.
But it's in today I shall ascend.

Seize the day
This moment
That moment
Every
Such moment
This morning
Sun shining
Positive
Mood swinging
Afternoon
Such delight
In the park
After dark
Late in night
Stars shining
Brainstorming
Life planning

Oh, seize this day, lads and loves!
Take it by the
scruff of the neck and yank
until your spirit lights a fire
that cannot be put out.
Mere flames
burn the heart that
is determined and ready.
Shout, my earthbound friends,
to the rooftops of encouragement! (YES!)
Eager ladies and gentlemen
dash out of prison work…
and into the freedom weekend.
Seize the day and
waste the infidel night!
Raise your voice!
Get your point across!
We have a choice!
Life beats loss!
Seize the final day!
April 20,2011
Published in Harbinger Asylum

What better day to be alive
To search for treasure in the heart
Why with heartache's memory strive
If Cupid's arrow missed the mark
Time never waits for sorrow's grave
Or asks the rain to take a pause
Not every road through life is paved
Kept manicured to hide the flaws
Dare not allow failed love to anchor
Kept in harbor, dreams unfulfilled
Refuse all thoughts prone to rancor
Press through each day with stronger will
Time's too precious for deep sorrow
Live for today, dream tomorrow.

It's creeping slowly into my blood
This feeling of desolation and madness
Swirling inside my voids when I look at you
Confused as to why my mind is fantasizing
Why my body is materializing
Why my emotions are stabilizing...
Has this been here all along or just began?
Have I always longed for you or only now?
Did I wish for this forever or did it start today?
Was I supposed to take this forbidden step over you
Make that fateful choice into the unknown
Open myself to breaking completely again
With you I have no ideas
No where to run to
No place to hide...
So maybe I'll just lay my head on your shoulder
Or whisper that I'm looking at you
In a light that only now appeared to my eyes
And it's beautiful.

I grow,
I struggle,
I am not nurtured,
Nor cared for,
I learn the harsh lessons,
Of Life,
Alone.
Then,
Satisfied in my growth,
Having learnt my lessons,
I gain maturity,
I am ready,
For change.
I build walls,
Around myself,
To protect,
This change,
For change I must.
I hang,
Waiting patiently,
Change must occur,
For what else is left?
I push now,
I am impatient,
I have waited,
Long enough,
It is time.
I’ll show this world,
That I can survive.
One side of me,
Is exposed to the world,
Then another,
Slowly at first,
For I do not wish to shock,
Only to dazzle.
Released am I,
Free,
Free to show myself,
In all my glory,
In all my splendor.
For I have changed,
I am now,
Who I’m meant to be,
I am finally me.
So, fear not change,
It comes naturally,
Be brave,
Learn well,
And when,
The time comes,
Be free.

Me, being me
I always wore
My heart
on my sleeve
But now...
no more.
I asked the assistant
if I could see
“...some new hearts
...please? ”
(that would suit
my change of heart) .
“Why, certainly sir! ”
(he smiled sycophantically) .
He showed me
a heart
“...in light pain.”
“Or, if Sir
may not mind me commenting
this deep purple pain
... suits you Sir! ”
“Don’t you have any
...in bright joy? ”
“Or at best
...partial happiness? ”
“Or at least
...contentment? ”
The assistant smirked:
“...at what one must assume
is Sir’s...little joke? ”
“Happiness is so...old hat! ”
“Happiness is...how you say
... so passé! ”
I left the shop
clutching an expensive
purple heart
knowing I would never
wear it
And that it would
hang in the wardrobe
Mocking
My predicament.
So, now
I don’t have a mind
to have a heart.
Get by
(somehow)
... without
...one.

CHANGE shall accustom me in after years
To kingdom's builded on life's overthrow;
Onward with other poets I shall go,
Unpraised of thee. though praised of all my peers,
Until the vine that thou hast quckened, bears
Its fruit in others' hands; until I grow
So different from myself I shall not know
This poor young desperate heart, nor these wild tears.
But though I change, thou shalt not change with me,
Thy shrine shall stand unaltered and unmoved,
And if we meet again I shall but see
The features of a stranger, thou wilt be
Wholly what once thou wert to me, Beloved
And not what time and men have made of thee

change the world, change me!
the revolution reaches autumn.
the wings of my dreams join the birds,
preparing to fly south.
the fireflies of my passion,
lay down the final gauntlet.
i let go of my thoughts,
and listen, just listen!
we walk a thousand miles,
to become seed and dirt.
the world that was distant,
now the sweat on my brow.
for i am the world...
change me, change the world!

If trust were a material thing,
solid and concrete,
there would be huge
boxes of it in the attic
that you have given me.
I build a nest in your words
everytime you say you love me.

In days of yore men preened and posed like peacocks to impress
the haute monde with their quality: Put on a brave display,
although often a hollow sham. Which only served to say.
Fine feathers do not make the man, although they may express.
His vapid personality and general uselessness
Today image is everything, it is the modern way.
We kow tow to celebrities, a silly game we play
We have not learnt lessons from history. That image matters less
Than well proven ability and sterling honesty.
We let ourselves be taken in by what spin doctors say.
We are to ready to accept as truth, the clever lies
Which at first glance appear to be completely bias free.
Well designed publicity by those who earn high pay.
by portraying as honest men: Thieving rogues in disguise.

No, Time, thou shalt not boast that I do change.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
To me are nothing novel, nothing strange;
They are but dressings of a former sight.
Our dates are brief, and therefore we admire
What thou dost foist upon us that is old,
And rather make them born to our desire
Than think that we before have heard them told.
Thy registers and thee I both defy,
Not wond'ring at the present, nor the past,
For thy records, and what we see doth lie,
Made more or less by thy continual haste:
This I do vow and this shall ever be:
I will be true despite thy scythe and thee.

A very wise person once wrote that it’s
The choices we make that define the person we are.
The decision you’ve made to change your name
Is one of the most important choices you’ll ever make —
Something no one else can do for you.
Just like the butterfly that emerges from the chrysalis,
Changing your name heralds a new stage in your life.
Like the butterfly, may you go out into this world
With pride, with courage, and with the certain knowledge that
Your new name has added meaning and purpose to your life.

Swami Vivekananda’s train
Reached Chicago Station
Late in the evening time.
None came to receive him.
He had lost the address
Of the head of delegates,
And there was no one
To give him information.
In that strange foreign land,
None gave a helping hand.
As his dress appeared peculiar,
They took him as a wanderer.
On the sidewalk, he sat.
A lady saw his pitiable plight
Gave him food and shelter,
As her guest of honor.
Mrs. George W. Hale was
That kind lady, his hostess,
Who took him to the Office
Of Parliament of Religions.
Dr. J.H. Barrows was
One of her friends.
As well as the President
Of that Parliament.
The President invited him
To represent Hinduism
And he was then free from
The admission problem
Both the kind hearted families
Of Hale and John B Lyons
Became his lifelong friends
And he stayed in their house.
It was the mercy of God
That, in fact, guided
This well deserving soul,
For his ‘ever-sincere’ role.
Amidst all his difficulties
There came many helpers
As if it was pre-planned
Always by the will of God.

Sing the Chicago
Blues
Sing the Chigago
Blues
Chigago is the windy city

In August,1868,
Was started the Lincoln Park Zoo.
A gift of mute swans did create
The time and place, and did accrue
Gifts of other animals that
Led to the public to support
A safe, protected habitat -
An ark for animals - all sort.
Millions of visitors each year
Come to the Zoo to hear and see
Wonders of wildlife living near.
The visit to the Zoo is free.
The Zoo that's found in Lincoln Park,
Still time and place of wildlife ark.

I watched the Chicago skyline
Become bright at the height of twilight
On a rooftop twenty-nine flights
I felt the daily fight
Die down as the world around
Changed from day to night.
The darkness fell
But failed to consume.
The lights were on with
Humans in full-bloom.
The drinks then poured
That freedom to assume.
On that lonely walk home
You just whistled a pleasant tune.
We watched the Chicago skyline
Until dawn switched on the metro lines
And a million people began moving in time
To their improvised versions of life
Their life, their lives.
Follow the rhythms throughout the day
but only in it's time should you ever stay
Otherwise create one all your own and
prepare to dance with a few or to just dance alone.

I  live in chicago
A very windy city
But tonight I will dance the Chicago samba
Once again
But when I dance the chicago blues
I sweat like crazy
And I feel like a kid again
But when I hear the chicago samba being played by the local musiciams
In the streets of chicago I get very excited
Because I know that their music cam be  heard also from faraway
And bring me back memories of home

1893 was the year.
October 28th the night.
The Chicago World's Fair was near
Ending as a great success bright.
Mayor Carter Harrison prepared
A closing speech, wise and witty.
Thanks to the speeches he had aired,
Chicago dubbed the Windy City.
No more would the Mayor speechify.
A deranged assassin did shoot
Three bullets, and the Mayor did die.
The World's Fair's grand ending went mute.
This World's Fair closed on a sad note.
The long speech unheard the Mayor wrote.

People walking, freely talking of many happy days.
But then the wind begins to blow,
and all the angels let down holy snow.
City filled with children playing in the snow,
with twinkles in their eyes as they begin to throw.
Said one kid to another, 'say your prayers my dear brother.'
'Lord, ' said the kid all dressed in red,
'my name lord is, Jimmy George Fred.
Make these things which roam the streets, nice, and sweet,
or freeze off their toes, and hurt their feet. Amen! ! '

1
“Limon tree very pretty
And the limon flower is sweet
But the fruit of the poor lemon
Is impossible to eat”
In Riverside we saved the oranges first (by smudging) and left
the lemons last to fend for them selves. They didn’t usually
A no good crop. Smudge-pots
Didn’t rouse them. The music
Is right though. The lemon tree
Could branch off into real magic. Each flower in place. We
Were sickened by the old lemon.
2
Pieces of the past arising out of the rubble. Which evokes Eliot
and then evokes Suspicion. Ghosts all of them. Doers of no
good.
The past around us is deeper than.
Present events defy us, the past
Has no such scruples. No funeral processions for him. He died
in agony. The cock under the thumb.
Rest us as corpses
We poets
Vain words.
For a funeral (as I live and breathe and speak)
Of good
And impossible
Dimensions.
3
In the far, fat Vietnamese jungles nothing grows.
In Guadacanal nothing grew but a kind of shrubbery that was
like the bar-conversation of your best friend who was
not able to talk.
3
Sheets to the wind. No
Wind being present.
No
Lifeboats being present. A jungle
Can’t use life-boats. Dead
From whatever bullets the snipers were. Each
Side of themselves. Safe-
Ly delivered.
4
The rind (also called the skin) of the lemon is difficult to
understand
It goes around itself in an oval quite unlike the orange which, as
anyone can tell, is a fruit easily to be eaten.
It can be crushed in canneries into all sorts of extracts which are
still not lemons. Oranges have no such fate. They’re pretty
much the same as they were. Culls become frozen orange
juice. The best oranges are eaten.
It’s the shape of the lemon, I guess that causes trouble. It’s
ovalness, it’s rind. This is where my love, somehow, stops.
5
A moment’s rest. I can’t get a moment’s rest without sleeping
with you. Yet each moment
Seems so hard to figure. Clocks
Tell time. In elaborate ceremonial they tick the seconds off
what was to come.
Wake us at six in the morning with messages someone had given
them the night before.
To pierce the darkness you need a clock that tells good time.
Something in the morning to hold on to
As one gets craftier in poetry one sees the obvious messages
(cocks for clocks) but one forgets the love that gave them
Time.
6
The moment’s rest. And the bodies entangled and yet not
entangled in sleeping. Could we get
Out of our skins and dance? The bedclothes
So awry that they seem like two skins.
Or all the sorts of skins that we wore, wear (the orgasm),
wanted to wear, or would be wearing. So utterly tangled.
A bad dream.
A moment’s rest. The skins
All of them
Near.
I saw the ghost of myself and the ghost of yourself dancing
without music.
With
Out
Skin.
A good dream. The
Moment’s rest.

''The South Side of Chicago'' by David Hart
The South Side of Chicago
Whence those childhood years were spent
Skip-walking upon grimacing cracked sidewalks
Hastening through filth floored garbage canned
flanked alleyways to-
The forlorn house-windows weeping chrystalline shards-
cascading glass tears
'Property Condemned' blared in scarlet on the door.
'Someone lives there' it was said,
'the man who gathers things from the garbage cans'
The pebble strewn church yard, where, in prickly winter,
scarved boys coerce the bell to toll with swift flung
snowballs catapaulted to a shivering bell tower.
The South Side of Chicago,
The year of the big church fire
That day it did burn and claw
At the hot black night sky.
People gathered, assembled in solemnity
Aghast, huddled and shoving to see
That hallowed place whose torrents
Of Sunday's serenities and dressups
Now would no longer be.
The South Side of Chicago
There, the swill darkened tavern
That nightly gulped down shadow faced spectres
A lad cries out, 'the bar, someone stabbed in the
head, come and see'.
'Not I', I said, 'not a sight I'd care to see',
as an acidic sadness enveloped me.
The boys came together wearing their
jackets and coats-symbols affixed, emblems
proudly donned-so they knew who they were.
'Wanna join? '  'No thanks', I said, 'Glad to be
just solitary me'.
I watched them, fighting their rivals
With chains, steel pipes and knives
Fearing their bloody deeds.
Content to be alone
Alone and free
The South Side of Chicago
In cramped classrooms scented in
soap and sawdust
Mostly attentive I would be
Amidst tatterly clothed children
-waiting for recess, lunch or
time to go home.
At recess, the garbage men came
And roused a battalion of rats
That scattered pell-mell
Amidst little girl shrieks
and screams
Little boys chortling
Chased those rats frightened
away
Far away
On the South Side of Chicago
2001DHartUSA

[NOTE: THIS POEM IS NOT TO BE USED ANYWHERE WITHOUT MY CONCENT. PLEASE USE THE LINKS IN MY BIOGRAPHY OR MESSAGES ON THIS SITE TO CONTACT ME. THANKS.]
I can't remember,
Skipping rocks on the pond,
My childhoods forgotten,
My Childhoods lost,
Going to the lake,
Sitting on the beach,
Playing with friends,
or dancing in the streets,
I can't remember,
The crash in the fog,
My childhood was forgotten,
My childhood was lost,
The doctor doing surgery,
Me getting pills,
I can't remember any of it,
None of it's clear,
I still can't remember,
How it is gone,
My childhood forgotten,
My childhood's lost!
Well I'm gonna end it right now,
I gonna kill myself off,
A childhood Forgotten,
A childhood lost

The sun would volley
Live coals on bodies
In threadbare clothes
The sun would blink
Through the meager waters
That’s left of a river
Sand dunes with scanty vegetation
Scattered all over
The small raft wouldn’t move
On thin layer of water
Where did the fish disappear?
Bedrooms shifted to isolated
Shades under trees
Leaves perspiring and choking
Under the smarting sun
The fires set ablaze to settle scores
Around the town increased
The mercury in the thermometer
Where’s water to put off the fires
On all the four sides of the town
With three intersecting canals
And the mighty Krishna
Coming to a halt?
We longingly would look
Towards the west
For the sun to set
When did the sun really ‘set? ’
The sun would always be
In the middles of the sky
Day in and day out
In the nights he would be
Substituted by hot gales
Which mom would counter
By placing raw onions on
Our skimpy beds and replenishing
Our thin tongues with water
Waking us up from the sun-laden sleep
Afternoons were time for fighting out
The live-coal sun with games under the
Scattered shades emitting the rawness of
Flower-laden mango trees
And biting into tender mangoes
For a moment the sun would take a retreat
Looking at the faces reflecting the sourness
Somehow the birds never really left
The nests they wove for the season to follow
They would wake us early in the morning
And in the mornings all we saw of them would be
By way of droppings on our heads
Sometimes they would swoop down
To take a sip from the flat earthen plates
Dad filled with water exclusively for them
They would even balance on the edge
Of a small vessel he would place
Filling it up with grains…
It was sapping heat
But never did it sap us
It was mercury at its high
But never disturbed us
We countered all
As if it’s just another
Season to live through
We would be habituated
To every facet by draping
Ourselves in damp clothing
And drawing long sips of water
From the fresh earthen pots
Sun is so much part of our day
Sun is our day!
02dec2010
12.45hrs

Sunlight peeps thru closed curtains
like a sleepy child, nodding in - out
yet you sleep. the wave of pre-dawn
passion, renaming lost childhood dreams
I often wonder about some childhood friend,
how at the time we were pardners, for life
what has become of him? is he sitting
somewhere with a cup of coffee?
I touch your skin, to gently introduce you
to a new day, and you with a smile, say
'I was just dreaming about you' thus
leaving my thoughts of childhood friends

CHILDHOOD MEMORIES
I still remember my childhood,
Love, affection and chide of my mother,
Weeping in a false manner,
Playing in the moonlight,
Struggles with cousins and companions,
Psuedo-chide of my father,
I still have everything with me,
But i miss,
Those childhood memories

I was unable to read and understand
What were papa up to and his stand?
When he will be angry or loose temper?
When he will embrace me or pamper?
I was feeling secure and happy as child
Mother was always very kind and mild
She looked to me as ocean of love
Ready with delicious food and serve
In her warmth I could feel bright day
She was almost there to show the way
She may forgo her comfort of sleep and say
I must be good boy and attention must pay
Her words are stored as unforgettable memory
When she is not seen around I feel so sorry
I search her here and there with utmost concern
So many things I had yet to follow and learn
Papa sometimes come heavily on me and scolds
Mother at the same time come and warmly holds
What a greatness to shower love with difference?
One must understand and draw lesson with inference
Papa seemed to me very harsh as head of family
He used to hold my hand firmly for mistakes silly
Mother may not interfere and make father angry
She may feed me with love when I felt hungry
Still I felt immense love for father
He was determined to take me further
He made me to look different from others
So I should be of my own and needn’t bother
As parent they taught me lesson with high morality
They did all they could do as per their ability
How to express why I hold then in high esteem? |
May be their intense love which to me possibly seem
Many children may not find situation like this
They might have lost parents and surely miss
Childhood is most important thing to cherish
Their sweet memories remain and don’t vanish

The younger years may fade but childhood remains within
Like a constant trace which can never be erased by time.
Always bound to a paradise that is evergreen
Where all poets never lose any enchanting rhyme.
I remember the time when the glow calls attention
As the nightingale and robin join in one chorus,
The sea reflects the glory of the blue horizon
And the harmony combines with no one to refuse.
The energy I spent in games has never been lost.
Everything I did rewinds unto me like a dream.
I have gained experiences that I can proudly boast,
For they are treasures to keep when comes the moonlight gleam.
O my friends! I can never forget those faithful years,
The times we wished upon the stars as we share our joys!
I cherish the times we group to dry each other’s tears
And satisfy the mute and silent with friendly voice.
Rest assured, all these things I can never forget,
For they are simple precious gems unworthy of trade.
Childhood sings with me in a legendary duet
Like the old times when history is perfectly made.
Thanks to Him who taught me to live and gave what I need.
Now I bear the fruits of summer from being a seed!
(Here's a version with Mr. Luke Easter)
Childhood Remains Within
Where are he younger years and how dare they not remain?
Fleeting, as the flowerbed seems like it went before it came,
Usually a constant traced that can never be erased by time,
Until black/brown turns to gray, clouds covering up my mind.
The juvenile days of marshmallow roasts abandon the stream,
From a paradise bound to be a forest forever no longer green,
Where poets remain like Anacondas, silent enchanting rhyme,
Yet everything must yield to Mother Nature, even Father Time,
As nightingale and robin join in one chorus to usher the moon,
Ocean’s reflect the glory of a blue horizon the sun is too soon,
Their harmony combines where no other species might refuse,
If it was downtown Chicago you would swear it was the blues.
The energy I spent in games never won has never been lost,
Everything I did rewinds with me like a dream there is a cost,
Gained experiences from childhood that I can proudly boast,
At a midnight sandbox I repelled Casper the Friendly Ghost.
Who ever heard of Witch’s and Goblins not making you fear?
O my friends! I’ll never forget those faithful childhood years,
One night we wished upon the stars in the middle of a storm,
Because good friends huddle together & everyone was warm.
Rest assured that all of these friendly memories I shall forget,
They are special precious gems unworthy of trading and yet,
For one more childhood hoop and holler in a legendary duet,
Would I relinquish my wealth for old times, hell yeah you bet.
Thanks to Him who taught me to live and giving what I need,
Now I shall plant the summer fruits for my coming little seed,
To satisfy vicariously from daddy’s offspring one day I’ll see,
Spirit joy filled laughter my parents experienced through me.
Is that not how growth begins and expands within the earth?
Nothing begets anything unless a seed of life is planted first,
Only what is planted will regenerate and determine it’s worth,
Silent darkness of the underground or warmth of the hearth?
Seasons oh seasons, dragging on forever, fall, winter, spring,
As ushering in the summer seemed like your only good thing,
Will always remember my first little league homerun I was 10,
No matter how many years flee, “Childhood Remains Within.”

An open space, pitted with ditches,
Jagged places, filled with debris.
We were warned not to play there
But what child could resist it?
There we built palaces
From which princesses were rescued;
Plains where cowboys fought indians.
Among the ruins we played hide and seek,
Cops and robbers, kick the can,
And other childhood  games.
In summer we climbed mountains,
Explored new continents,
Hacked our way through jungles.
In winter we sledged on icy slopes,
Had vicious snowball battles.
And when it rained we made paper boats
That sailed a brief moment,
Then sank in muddy puddles.

We were little girls
Living next door to one another
I was an only child
She had three younger brothers
We became close friends
We pedaled together on a bike ride
We liked singing with songs on the radio
We did our homework side by side
Skillfully we climbed an old fruit tree
And sat on branches with legs dangling
We’d snatch apples and eat them green…
Our throats were gripped by tart strangling
We were actresses without a written script
What a story our young minds could weave…
When our imaginations convincingly took over
the roles we played truly made us believe
Many years have passed since we kept company
We both grew older and went our separate ways
Only today... I thought back to that carefree time
I wonder now, if she ever thinks of those days
(6/29/07)

Elbowing our way, we run.
Someone is being beaten up in the market.
You wouldn’t want to miss it!
We pick up speed, racing to the uproar,
scooping up water in our felt boots
and forgetting to wipe our sniffles.
And stood stock-still. In our little hearts something tightened,
when we saw how the ring of sheepskin coats,
fur coats, hooded coats, was contracting,
how he stood up near the green vegetable stall
with his head pulled into his shoulders from the hail
of jabs, kicks, spitting, slaps in the face.
Suddenly someone from the right by the handcart
pushed his teeth in,
Suddenly someone from the left bashed his forehead with a
chunk of ice.
Blood appeared-and then they started in, in earnest.
All piled up in a heap they began to scream together,
pounding with sticks, reins,
and linchpins out of wheels.
In vain he wheezed to them: 'Mates,
you’re my mates-what’s the matter? '
The mob wanted to settle accounts fully.
The mob was deaf with rage.
The mob grumbled at those who weren’t putting their boots in,
and they trampled something that looked like a body
into the spring snow that was turning into mud.
They beat him up with relish. With ingenuity. Juicy.
I saw how skillfully and precisely
one man kept putting the boots in,
boots with greasy flaps on them,
right under the belt of the man who was down,
smothered in mud and dungy water.
Their owner, a guy with an honest enough mug,
very proud of his high principles,
was saying with each kick: 'Don’t try your tricks with us! '
booting him deliberately, with the utmost conviction,
and, sweat pouring, with a red face, he jovially called to me:
'Come on, youngster, get in it! '
I can’t remember-how many there were, making a din,
beating him up.
It may have been a hundred, it may have been more,
but I, just a boy, wept for shame.
And if a hundred are beating somebody up,
howling in a frenzy-even if for a good cause-
I will never make one hundred and one!
1963
Translated by Tina Tupikina-Glaessner, Geoffrey Dutton, and Igor Mezhakoff-Koriakin (revised)

When I think of the many people
who privately despise children,
I can't say I'm completely shocked,
having been one. I was not
exceptional, uncomfortable as that is
to admit, and most children are not
exceptional. The particulars of
cruelty, sizes Large and X-Large,
memory gnawing it like
a fat dog, are ordinary: Mean Miss
Smigelsky from the sixth grade;
the orthodontist who
slapped you for crying out. Children
frighten us, other people's and
our own. They reflect
the virused figures in which failure
began. We feel accosted by their
vulnerable natures. Each child turns
into a problematic ocean, a mirrored
body growing denser and more
difficult to navigate until
sunlight merely bounces
off the surface. They become impossible
to sound. Like us, but even weaker.

Hush now, barking spiders,
please don’t make a sound.
I’m at my birthday party.
I don’t need you guys around.
All my friends are here.
It’s important that you know
you didn’t get invited
so I wish that you’d just go.
I’m wearing all my birthday stuff,
shirt, pants and my new sandals.
If you won’t go, then please hush up
when I blow out my candles.

With beasts and gods, above, the wall is bright.
The child's head, bent to the book-colored shelves,
Is slow and sidelong and food-gathering,
Moving in blind grace ... yet from the mural, Care
The grey-eyed one, fishing the morning mist,
Seizes the baby hero by the hair
And whispers, in the tongue of gods and children,
Words of a doom as ecumenical as dawn
But blanched like dawn, with dew.
The children's cries
Are to men the cries of crickets, dense with warmth
-- But dip a finger into Fafnir, taste it,
And all their words are plain as chance and pain.
Their tales are full of sorcerers and ogres
Because their lives are: the capricious infinite
That, like parents, no one has yet escaped
Except by luck or magic; and since strength
And wit are useless, be kind or stupid, wait
Some power's gratitude, the tide of things.
Read meanwhile ... hunt among the shelves, as dogs do, grasses,
And find one cure for Everychild's diseases
Beginning: Once upon a time there was
A wolf that fed, a mouse that warned, a bear that rode
A boy. Us men, alas! wolves, mice, bears bore.
And yet wolves, mice, bears, children, gods and men
In slow preambulation up and down the shelves
Of the universe are seeking ... who knows except themselves?
What some escape to, some escape: if we find Swann's
Way better than our own, an trudge on at the back
Of the north wind to -- to -- somewhere east
Of the sun, west of the moon, it is because we live
By trading another's sorrow for our own; another's
Impossibilities, still unbelieved in, for our own ...
"I am myself still?" For a little while, forget:
The world's selves cure that short disease, myself,
And we see bending to us, dewy-eyed, the great
CHANGE, dear to all things not to themselves endeared.

Give Love to the children Children need love everyday
Give love to the children Guide them on their way
Love's like a burning flame consumes all that stands in the way
Love is the only power on earth to take all the hatred away
GIVE LOVE TO THE CHILDREN set the children free
To make their own decisions then they will clearly see
Love is the sun the moon and the stars love is a golden ring
Love is the one thing the whole world desires be it beggar or king
GIVE LOVE TO THE CHILDREN youth has not long to stay
Love is a long term investment the best you will find any day
Love like the rising sun takes all the darkness away
Our children will tell their children and their childrens children will say
Give love to the children they are our crock of gold
and if perchance they ever stray they will come back to the fold
Give love to the children the children of today
Give love to the children and love will come to stay.

Get your ice cold glass of lemonade!
Hurry, before it's gone.
We made it just this morning.
See the table that it's on?
We promise that you'll like it
and there's sugar in it, too -
not like it was the other day
when mom and dad said Ewww.
Get your ice cold glass of lemonade!
Boy grownups sure are funny -
they smile a lot at little kids
who are trying to make money.
Thank you, maam, and thank you, sir,
you've helped us out a bunch.
Sissy, let's go make some more.
It's almost time for lunch.
Get your ice cold glass of lemonade!
Only fifteen cents a glass!
We've got to make more money
and we've got to make it fast.
Daddy said it wouldn't work,
that people wouldn't stop.
They'd hurry right on past us
and then they'd laugh a lot.
One last glass of lemonade!
This was so much fun!
Let's get this table put away
and then we've got to run.
Sissy look!  It's snowing!
But that will be all right...
now we have money for presents
and Santa Claus comes tonight.

There's a monster in my house!
It came in a great big box.
Mommy says it isn't so,
but something ate my socks.
I used to have a full sock drawer,
with red ones and some blue.
I even had some white ones,
'cause I wear white socks, too.
There's a monster in my house!
It came in a great big box
and I must make it angry
or it wouldn't eat my socks.
It lives around here, somewhere.
(whisper)    Shhhh!  I hope it's not around!
'Cause if you ever wake it up,
it makes such awful sounds.
Most times, it says, 'Yum-Yum! Yum-Yum! '
Sometimes, it just goes 'swish'.
But, I know it eats my socks up
without a spoon or dish.
Mom says they're underneath the bed
or spread around the floor.
(well the monster musta' burped 'em there
when she opened up the door) .
There's a monster in my house!
It came in a great big box!
Mom says it's just the washer...
but it's a monster that eats my socks!

I think of all the things I have,
I like my pockets best.
Pockets hold just everything
and they give your hands a rest.
I never know just what I'll find,
what special things I'll see
to put inside my pockets ~~
these are treasures, just for me.
When Mommy's doing laundry though,
she says sometimes it's scary
finding rocks and frogs and beetles
and my spiders that are hairy.

In Daddy's bedroom down the hall,
there's a special place, The Birthday Wall.
Every year about this time,
he hugs me then he draws my line.
We look at where I used to be
when I was small and only three.
Much higher, then, the one for four,
then five, then six, and now one more.
On the wall two names I see,
my little sister's, then there's me.
Sissy's line comes to my nose.
To look at mine, she's on tiptoes.
Sometimes when I am feeling small,
I go down to see The Birthday Wall
to see how big I'll be next time
Daddy hugs me and he draws my line.

O'erwhelming sorrow now demands my song:
From death the overwhelming sorrow sprung.
What flowing tears? What hearts with grief opprest?
What sighs on sighs heave the fond parent's breast?
The brother weeps, the hapless sisters join
Th' increasing woe, and swell the crystal brine;
The poor, who once his gen'rous bounty fed,
Droop, and bewail their benefactor dead.
In death the friend, the kind companion lies,
And in one death what various comfort dies!
Th' unhappy mother sees the sanguine rill
Forget to flow, and nature's wheels stand still,
But see from earth his spirit far remov'd,
And know no grief recalls your best-belov'd:
He, upon pinions swifter than the wind,
Has left mortality's sad scenes behind
For joys to this terrestrial state unknown,
And glories richer than the monarch's crown.
Of virtue's steady course the prize behold!
What blissful wonders to his mind unfold!
But of celestial joys I sing in vain:
Attempt not, muse, the too advent'rous strain.
No more in briny show'rs, ye friends around,
Or bathe his clay, or waste them on the ground:
Still do you weep, still wish for his return?
How cruel thus to wish, and thus to mourn?
No more for him the streams of sorrow pour,
But haste to join him on the heav'nly shore,
On harps of gold to tune immortal lays,
And to your God immortal anthems raise.

Christmas, a joyful time of year.
Fun-filled days, lots of holiday cheer.
Children all over the world, year after year,
Wait for this special day in the hopes
of many gifts to open and play.
How soon we forget, the true
meaning of Christmas.
Sweet Jesus was born on this joyous day.
In a manger in Bethlehem oh, so far away.
No pillow for his head.
No blanket for his bed.
A true gift from God, our Father
Let us praise him instead.
Written:  Dec.2/06

South of the Line, inland from far Durban,
A mouldering soldier lies--your countryman.
Awry and doubled up are his gray bones,
And on the breeze his puzzled phantom moans
Nightly to clear Canopus:  "I would know
By whom and when the All-Earth-gladdening Law
Of Peace, brought in by that Man Crucified,
Was ruled to be inept, and set aside?
And what of logic or of truth appears
In tacking 'Anno Domini' to the years?
Near twenty-hundred livened thus have hied,
But tarries yet the Cause for which He died."

So, this is Christmas morning...
everyone is here.
I don't really understand it
cause it isn't very clear,
but Mom and Dad are happy,
there's pretty ribbons everywhere,
lots of things that they call presents
and even paper I can tear.
They keep showing me this new stuff,
balls and books and even soxes...
they don't seem to know how fun it is
just playing with these boxes.

What sudden blaze of song
Spreads o'er th' expanse of Heaven?
In waves of light it thrills along,
Th' angelic signal given -
"Glory to God!" from yonder central fire
Flows out the echoing lay beyond the starry choir;
Like circles widening round
Upon a clear blue river,
Orb after orb, the wondrous sound
Is echoed on for ever:
"Glory to God on high, on earth be peace,
And love towards men of love--salvation and release."
Yet stay, before thou dare
To join that festal throng;
Listen and mark what gentle air
First stirred the tide of song;
'Tis not, "the Saviour born in David's home,
To Whom for power and health obedient worlds should come:" -
'Tis not, "the Christ the Lord:"
With fixed adoring look
The choir of Angels caught the word,
Nor yet their silence broke:
But when they heard the sign where Christ should be,
In sudden light they shone and heavenly harmony.
Wrapped in His swaddling bands,
And in His manger laid,
The Hope and Glory of all lands
Is come to the world's aid:
No peaceful home upon his cradle smiled,
Guests rudely went and came, where slept the royal Child.
But where Thou dwellest, Lord,
No other thought should be,
Once duly welcomed and adored,
How should I part with Thee?
Bethlehem must lose Thee soon, but Thou wilt grace
The single heart to be Thy sure abiding-place.
Thee, on the bosom laid
Of a pure virgin mind,
In quiet ever, and in shade,
Shepherd and sage may find;
They, who have bowed untaught to Nature's sway,
And they, who follow Truth along her star-paved way.
The pastoral spirits first
Approach Thee, Babe divine,
For they in lowly thoughts are nursed,
Meet for Thy lowly shrine:
Sooner than they should miss where Thou dost dwell,
Angela from Heaven will stoop to guide them to Thy cell.
Still, as the day comes round
For Thee to be revealed,
By wakeful shepherds Thou art found,
Abiding in the field.
All through the wintry heaven and chill night air,
In music and in light Thou dawnest on their prayer.
O faint not ye for fear -
What though your wandering sheep,
Reckless of what they see and hear,
Lie lost in wilful sleep?
High Heaven in mercy to your sad annoy
Still greets you with glad tidings of immortal joy.
Think on th' eternal home,
The Saviour left for you;
Think on the Lord most holy, come
To dwell with hearts untrue:
So shall ye tread untired His pastoral ways,
And in the darkness sing your carol of high praise.

Christmas day arrives.
Stockings are first to be explored.
Oranges, apples and sweets.
On their beds adorn.
Mum and Dad are awoke,
at some early hour.
By children’s faces,
filled with laughter and smile.
Saying their presents,
they wish to explore.
Coloured paper and ribbons,
scattered here and there across the floor.
Boys with cars and girls with dolls,
seem to be everywhere.
As for the toys in the shops,
that were wanted, but not bought.
In the excitement of it all.
They are not missed
and very soon forgot.
14 Nov 1978

Cars and bustle, rush and hustle,
trolley dashing tempers clashing
Christmas cheer to much beer
mistletoe, plastic snow
christmas holly 'lets be jolly'
christmas pud, do you think we should?
Turkey, stuffing, granny puffing,
fairy lights, men in tights
pantomimes, palour games
christmas cake, belly ache
as yet another piece you take!
Boxing day, in-laws stay!
Endless repeats on the telly, and again from your belly!
No more hassle...the odd brussel!
christmas farce....
A pain in the arse!

I heard the bells on Christmas day
Their old familiar carols play,
And wild and sweet the words repeat
Of peace on earth, good will to men.
I thought how, as the day had come,
The belfries of all Christendom
Had rolled along th'unbroken song
Of peace on earth, good will to men.
And in despair I bowed my head:
'There is no peace on earth, ' I said
'For hate is strong, and mocks the song
Of peace on earth, good will to men.'
Then pealed the bells more loud and deep:
'God is not dead, nor doth He sleep;
The wrong shall fail, the right prevail,
With peace on earth, good will to men.'
Till, ringing, singing on its way,
The world revolved from night to day
A voice, a chime, a chant sublime,
Of peace on earth, good will to men.

They let the children out of school too early.
I left the Christmas shopping till too late.
Each day we had a holiday excursion,
Which gave us the entire week to wait in line for
Movies by Disney,
Gift-wrapping by Lord & Taylor,
And everyone's restrooms.
On Christmas Eve we started to assemble
The easy-to-assemble telescope
And fire truck with forty-seven pieces.
By midnight it was plain there was no hope without
An astronomer,
A mechanical engineer,
And two psychiatrists.
We rose at dawn to three boys singing Rudolph.
We listened numbly to their shouts of glee.
The kitten threw up tinsel on the carpet.
The fire truck collided with the tree, requiring
One rug shampoo,
Several Band-aids,
And Scotch before breakfast.
I bought my husband shirts - wrong size, wrong colors,
And ties he said he couldn't be caught dead in.
I'd hinted Saint Laurent or something furry.
He bought me flannel gowns to go to bed in, also
A Teflon frying pan,
A plaid valise,
And The Weight Watchers Cook Book.
The turkey was still frozen at eleven.
At noon my eldest boy spilled Elmer's glue.
At five I had a swell Excedrin headache,
The kind that lasts till January two...but
Merry Christmas
And Happy New Year,
I think.

In the dark and damp of the alley cold,
Lay the Christmas tree that hadn't been sold;
By a shopman dourly thrown outside;
With the ruck and rubble of Christmas-tide;
Trodden deep in the muck and mire,
Unworthy even to feed a fire...
So I stopped and salvaged that tarnished tree,
And thus is the story it told to me:
"My Mother was Queen of the forest glade,
And proudly I prospered in her shade;
For she said to me: 'When I am dead,
You will be monarch in my stead,
And reign, as I, for a hundred years,
A tower of triumph amid your peers,
When I crash in storm I will yield you space;
Son, you will worthily take my place.'
"So I grew in grace like a happy child,
In the heart of the forest free and wild;
And the moss and the ferns were all about,
And the craintive mice crept in and out;
And a wood-dove swung on my highest twig,
And a chipmunk chattered: 'So big! So big!'
And a shy fawn nibbled a tender shoot,
And a rabbit nibbled under my root...
Oh, I was happy in rain and shine
As I thought of the destiny that was mine!
Then a man with an axe came cruising by
And I knew that my fate was to fall and die.
"With a hundred others he packed me tight,
And we drove to a magic city of light,
To an avenue lined with Christmas trees,
And I thought: may be I'll be one of these,
Tinselled  with silver and tricked with gold,
A lovely sight for a child to behold;
A-glitter with lights of every hue,
Ruby and emerald, orange and blue,
And kiddies dancing, with shrieks of glee -
One might fare worse than a Christmas tree.
"So they stood me up with a hundred more
In the blaze of a big department store;
But I thought of the forest dark and still,
And the dew and the snow and the heat and the chill,
And the soft chinook and the summer breeze,
And the dappled deer and the birds and the bees...
I was so homesick I wanted to cry,
But patient I waited for someone to buy.
And some said 'Too big,' and some 'Too small,'
And some passed on saying nothing at all.
Then a little boy cried: Ma, buy that one,'
But she shook her head: 'Too dear, my son."
So the evening came, when they closed the store,
And I was left on the littered floor,
A tree unwanted, despised, unsold,
Thrown out at last in the alley cold."
Then I said: "Don't sorrow; at least you'll be
A bright and beautiful New Year's tree,
All shimmer and glimmer and glow and gleam,
A radiant sight like a fairy dream.
For there is a little child I know,
Who lives in poverty, want  and woe;
Who lies abed from morn to night,
And never has known an hour's delight..."
So I stood the tree at the foot of her bed:
"Santa's a little late," I said.
"Poor old chap! Snowbound on the way,
But he's here at last, so let's be gay."
Then she woke from sleep and she saw you there,
And her eyes were love and her lips were prayer.
And her thin little arms were stretched to you
With a yearning joy that they never knew.
She woke from the darkest dark to see
Like a heavenly vision, that Christmas Tree.
Her mother despaired and feared the end,
But from that day she began to mend,
To play, to sing, to laugh with glee...
Bless you, O little Christmas Tree!
You died, but your life was not in vain:
You helped a child to forget her pain,
And let hope live in our hearts again.

A holly wreath hung on the door,
Or presents strewn across the floor,
Tall Christmas tree with baubles bright,
Which fills our hearts with such delight.
Carols sung out in the snow,
A Snowman built with eyes aglow,
Crackers pulled, a song to sing,
Candles lit, and bells that ring.
Roasted turkey, which tastes divine,
Rich, fruit cake, with an iced design,
No, the most important reminder of all,
Is the birth of a babe in an Ox's stall.
©   Ernestine Northover

My outstretched arms surpass the point
Of normal, taxing every joint
By reaching, gasping, pulling in
The cloistered thoughts that lie within.
We meet in quiet, swathed in night,
Our bodies bathed in candlelight,
As words are whispered, sparsely spread
Between the bureau and the bed,
Where, skin-on-soul, our friction roars
While each of us, in turn, explores—
The vastness shuts—a shrink-wrapped world
Containing two, enclosed and curled
Together in contented bliss,
A rhythm set, no breath amiss
Within the syncopated shell
Of our imagined wishing well,
Which shimmers not with silver coins,
But softly gleams, as love enjoins,
With eyes awash in dancing hues,
A flashing mesh of browns and blues.
Our funneled gazes turn the lock
On earthly cares, to catch the clock—
11: 59—pre-chime,
Before it strikes our ending time—
Instead, we claim the lives we know,
The challenges, the chores, although
One day, with limitations gone,
Perhaps our dream will sidle on
Beyond the Cinderella toll,
Where, unencumbered, we could roll
Towards a truth, on steady wheels,
Of freer time, and new ideals.

You are the Cinderella and
I want to be the man  to take your hand and help
you stand to be your man in all the land
the glass has fallen from your foot and
when I find it that’s when I find you to make it fit
I hope it do to hold you I want to but to lose
you is coming too I know its life
and that for me is almost through
but once it’s over I hope that you are happy too,
when you leave me I will know it’s through and
all I will have left to say to you is
I bid you a due and I love you to

Father met a lovely lady,
She had two daughters one
was crazy
Father and daughter went
to stay
In a mansion far away
Father turned ill one cold
day
everyone bowed their heads
to pray
Stepmother turned into a
witch
along with daughters became
a bitch
Cinderella was their slave
She stood tall tired and
brave
Cinderella's friends were very
few
she knew exactly what to do
Take care of stepmother
sister too
work and work till day is
thru
One day a messenger came to
call
inviting all girls to a ball
The prince was home it was
getting late
girls meet him at the kingdoms
gate
He was looking for his wife to
be
the King also wanted to see
The ugly sisters gowns were
fine
Cinderella thought where is
mine
Her little friends and two
field mice
thought about her problem
twice
We'll make a gown for our
friend to wear
she'll be beautiful ever so
fair
So the friendly sewing circle
began
sewing A lovely satin band
stepsisters started to contrive
to destroy her gown never to
arrive
Her fairy Godmother came in
view
She knew exactly what to do
Touched her with a magic wand
a fabulous gown she put on
Dressed in her stunning gown
of white
Cinderella was a pure delight
Waiting for her carriage of
gold
her future was about to unfold.
to be continue

Why looking blue today
What’s the matter with you?
Where is Prince Charming?
Who are looking for now?
How you could have done this?
The teardrops fall tonight
Lost without a care to fight
Blowing in the wind now
Are the dreams you left
Your hearts in you hands
Slipping away till falls
Shattered it to pieces
Trying to put it back
With what is left of you
Thinking is there anything else
That I could do now
I wished it all a way
Here I am sitting here
Looking at shooting stars
Getting lost as I am

She was the Cinderella
waiting for her prince charming,
but soon enough
she finallly found him.
She always doubted
he was the one,
and that he would leave her
for someone better,
even when he called her perfect
and that there was no one else
to take her place.
He was the prince charming
looking for his Cinderella
and he found her.
He would give her a look
followed by a gentle smile,
then a kiss.
He loved her
no matter how much she doubted him.
He knew they would be together forever.

Cinderella the dear girl
The fondness of love you gave
The unselfish gestures to guests
The great wishes of you
Ever it is pleasure to remember
Curses followed you but never minded
Attempts to destroy the future
Never minded, but always cried
The god saved you at last
You got your loved one the prince
The great achievement for your life
Cinderella the kindness in your heart
Love the children and the world
Humanity in your words always
Pleasantness in your feelings followed
Ignorance never minded
Attentive to the  people whom you care
The world is with you poor girl
Not as a victim but a successful heart.

This bell ring spread a beautiful memories
About a girl who tried to catch a little dream
Unfortunely she found herself in a middle of
Life that she couldn’t spend without perseverance
She now close her heart to anybody else
Then a charming prince come to lend a hand
To a poor little girl who couldn’t feel
Love or happiness she’s hard to believe in
I’m not Cinderella or any princess else
She said
I’m not live or wait for white horse mounts
I’m not want to love or be loved
That’s not a thing like I could hand on
Everyday till past I live in the heavy rain
And I don’t need you to give me a sunshine
I’m not cry or hurt at night
Don’t stand on your own mind! ! ! !
I’m not Cinderella or any princess else
Not that time or this time
Waiting for true love?
Don’t say a mess
But yes she used to dream as one
Wear a white dress with a man who stand
Right beside her
Carrying her hand
Then they kissed
Live happy ever after
But
I’m not Cinderella or any princess else
I will love without be loved
And only lost
To a beauty dream like you just appear
And if I give you my heart you will tear it apart
But
I’m not Cinderella or any princess else
No love story will tell in my midnight tale

We used to love, we used to dance.
But something happened to make the love vanish.
The dance ended as my Cinderella left me, slipping through my hands like the sands of time.
Now I'm hiding all my pain as I wonder if she's doing the same. Everyone asks if I'm fine, and that I'll move on someday, and I know this is true, but for now, I want my Cinderella back.
It hurts to think about it, no matter what I do, the dreams of the past haunt me.The laughs, smiles, hugs, dates, and kisses. They all won't leave me alone, as I keep wanting her back, nights of restless sleep for a few weeks.
I act like I'm fie, but in reality, I just want her to give me one more chance, perhaps a dance. We would dance slowly, just like before, and I would smile, because I would have my Cinderella back.

I want to drink the ocean to come to you
I want to give you the kiss the one you need
I want to wake you up from endless sleep
To teach you Poisoned apples not to eat
I m in love with the powers of your words
Climbing in my desert like gorgious dolls
I don't know the colour of your eyes
But when I see the moon I feel their light

I am really shocked to behold the pink city
Blood when flows near by  the green field
From the ill fatted souls of their mother’s womb
Tear when turns red eyes yet steeped in sorrows
Serial blast such brutal act against humanity
in this maddened world by this mankind
fire when burns the love in men innocent
peace and care when waned by evil insane
should we still  call them homosapiens, perhaps no
unwanted rogues resourced by their own ill design
society still seems wild by the doings of paranoia
yet we call upon justice knocking the door of divine
barbarism still plays  by the laughter of wickedness
slanting across the door of terrorism when befuddled
as when wrought by the minds of ill born dunderheads
can we not classify them in between man and killer giant
still they seem to be more severe and wild by the death
even more dangerous than wild and insane of the jungles
the crown when worn by the heinous world of terrorism
the cruelty has already infiltrated to our blood
yet not the last massacre of trade centre or else where
that has not yet been blotted out from our mind,
still we remember that horrific moments by the death
the process of annihilation when starts
sun may disappear from east or west
man when counts his age by the void in darkness
heart still bleats and blurs  by the hope against hope
and we condemns this domestic terrorism by monsters
God might be feeling pity for those Frankenstein
who never think of their own grave.hanging on their heads
I sill remember the inch cape rock against the storm
Ralf the Rover when embraced the deadly death
I still pray God never allows these heartless worms
to be here again or to grow some where on this earth,
lest the tears may not fall again in the furrows of remorse and sorrows

Music is like a city
The genres are the suburbs
The bands, the streets
The albums, the buildings
And the songs, the apartments
The streets get inspiration from other streets
They duplicate then alter them slightly.
The city is very busy and there are always
People driving through looking and listening
The city is growing every day.
The suburbs larger and larger
And some join together.
The streets longer and longer
And some old and tattered.
The building will always stay the same
But they will always be new.
The city will always keep growing
As the music goes on.

There's no green nor any blue
No sea nor a hill of hue
Our eyes gain no tranquil glory
Finding there no prairie
A street of houses
A road of pits and manholes
Departmentally concaved
By chasing vehicles goaded-
Doddering, tottering, walk-smitten
As per the doctor's advice driven
Bathing in sweat and dust
Panting laboriously but adjusting to ingest
People of sixty plus quality
Walking along with hoofing activity
Under the sun up once down once
Fitness oohing amid the dissonance, smogginess....
Oh Dhanvantri, God of health!
Born on earth, grown to aged stealth
You too do this city 'go-go'?

In the city of sorrows
Is where we see so much
Racism
Against
Men and women
In the city of sorrows
There are so much injustice

The white woman across the aisle from me says 'Look,
look at all the history, that house
on the hill there is over two hundred years old, '
as she points out the window past me
into what she has been taught. I have learned
little more about American history during my few days
back East than what I expected and far less
of what we should all know of the tribal stories
whose architecture is 15,000 years older
than the corners of the house that sits
museumed on the hill. 'Walden Pond, '
the woman on the train asks, 'Did you see Walden Pond? '
and I don't have a cruel enough heart to break
her own by telling her there are five Walden Ponds
on my little reservation out West
and at least a hundred more surrounding Spokane,
the city I pretended to call my home. 'Listen, '
I could have told her. 'I don't give a shit
about Walden. I know the Indians were living stories
around that pond before Walden's grandparents were born
and before his grandparents' grandparents were born.
I'm tired of hearing about Don-fucking-Henley saving it, too,
because that's redundant. If Don Henley's brothers and sisters
and mothers and father hadn't come here in the first place
then nothing would need to be saved.'
But I didn't say a word to the woman about Walden
Pond because she smiled so much and seemed delighted
that I thought to bring her an orange juice
back from the food car. I respect elders
of every color. All I really did was eat
my tasteless sandwich, drink my Diet Pepsi
and nod my head whenever the woman pointed out
another little piece of her country's history
while I, as all Indians have done
since this war began, made plans
for what I would do and say the next time
somebody from the enemy thought I was one of their own.

A sad tale of the sea I will relate, which will your hearts appal
Concerning the burning of the steamship "City of Montreal,"
Which had on board two hundred and forty-nine souls in all,
But, alas! a fearful catastrophe did them befall.
The steamer left New York on the 6th August with a general cargo,
Bound for Queenstown and Liverpool also;
And all went well until Wednesday evening the 10th,
When in an instant an alarming fire was discovered at length.
And most of the passengers had gone to their berths for the night,
But when the big bell rang out, oh! what a pitiful sight;
To see mothers and their children crying, was most heartrending to behold,
As the blinding smoke began to ascend from the main hold.
And the smoke before long drifted down below,
Which almost choked the passengers, and filled their hearts with woe;
Then fathers and mothers rushed madly upon the deck,
While the crew were struggling manfully the fire to check.
Oh, it was a soul-harrowing and horrible sight,
To see the brave sailors trying hard with all their might;
Battling furiously with the merciless flames --
With a dozen of hose, but still the fire on them gains.
At length it became apparent the steamer couldn't be saved,
And the passengers were huddled together, and some of them madly raved;
And the family groups were most touching to see,
Especially husbands and wives embracing each other tenderly.
The mothers drew their little ones close to them,
Just like little lambs huddled together in a pen;
While the white foaming billows was towering mountains high,
And one and all on God for protection did cry.
And when the Captain saw the steamer he couldn't save,
He cried, come men, prepare the boats to be launched on the briny wave;
Be quick, and obey my orders, let each one bear a hand-
And steer the vessel direct for Newfoundland.
Then the men made ready the boats, which were eight on board,
Hurriedly and fearlessly with one accord;
And by eight o'clock on Thursday morning, everything was ready
For the passengers to leave the burning steamer that was rolling unsteady.
Then Captain Land on his officers loudly did call,
And the cheery manliness of him inspired confidence in all;
Then he ordered the men to lower the boats without delay,
So the boats were launched on the stormy sea without dismay.
Then women and children were first put into them,
Also a quantity of provisions, then followed the men;
And as soon as the boats were loaded they left the steamer's side,
To be tossed to and fro on the ocean wide.
And just as they left the burning ship, a barque hove in sight,
Which filled the poor creatures' hearts with delight;
And the barque was called the "Trebant," of Germany,
So they were all rescued and conveyed to their homes in safety.
But before they left the barque, they thanked God that did them save
From a cold and merciless watery grave;
Also the Captain received their thanks o'er and o'er,
Whilst the big waves around the barque did sullenly roar.
So good people I warn ye ail to be advised by me,
To remember and be prepared to meet God where'er ye may be;
For death claims his victims, both on sea and shore,
Therefore be prepared for that happy land where all troubles are o'er.

Over the edge of the purple down,
Where the single lamplight gleams,
Know ye the road to the Merciful Town
That is hard by the Sea of Dreams--
Where the poor may lay their wrongs away,
And the sick may forget to weep?
But we--pity us! Oh, pity us!
We wakeful; ah, pity us! --
We must go back with Policeman Day--
Back from the City of Sleep!
Weary they turn from the scroll and crown,
Fetter and prayer and plough--
They that go up to the Merciful Town,
For her gates are closing now.
It is their right in the Baths of Night
Body and soul to steep,
But we--pity us! ah, pity us!
We wakeful; oh, pity us!--
We must go back with Policeman Day--
Back from the City of Sleep!
Over the edge of the purple down,
Ere the tender dreams begin,
Look--we may look--at the Merciful Town,
But we may not enter in!
Outcasts all, from her guarded wall
Back to our watch we creep:
We--pity us! ah, pity us!
We wakeful; oh, pity us!--
We that go back with Policeman Day--
Back from the City of Sleep!

I will not toy with it nor bend an inch.
Deep in the secret chambers of my heart
I muse my life-long hate, and without flinch
I bear it nobly as I live my part.
My being would be a skeleton, a shell,
If this dark Passion that fills my every mood,
And makes my heaven in the white world's hell,
Did not forever feed me vital blood.
I see the mighty city through a mist--
The strident trains that speed the goaded mass,
The poles and spires and towers vapor-kissed,
The fortressed port through which the great ships pass,
The tides, the wharves, the dens I contemplate,
Are sweet like wanton loves because I hate.

Captain, or colonel, or knight in arms,
Whose chance on these defenceless doors may seize,
If deed of honour did thee ever please,
Guard them, and him within protect from harms.
He can requite thee, for he knows the charms
That call fame on such gentle acts as these,
And he can spread thy name o’er lands and seas,
Whatever clime the sun’s bright circle warms.
Lift not thy spear against the Muse’s bower;
The great Emathian conqueror bid spare
The house of Pindarus, when temple and tower
Went to the ground; and the repeated air
Of sad Electra’s Poet had the power
To save the Athenian walls from ruin bare.

C for cosmos
C for Christ
C for cerebellum
C for coffin
C for holy Cross
C for clouds
C for courage
April one Cinderella
April 7,2010

COURAGE IN OLD AGE IS DIFFICULT
Courage in old age is difficult
But Courage is always difficult
Hope in old age is also difficult
Happiness in old age is not so difficult at times
Courage in old age is what is most needed
Courage against the pain the illness the loss of friends and loved ones
The disabilities
Courage in old age to keep on going
To not lose oneself in depression
Courage to try and not become a burden
Courage to go on as if one were alright
When one knows one is really not
Courage in old age is difficult
But courage we all need
And must try to have.

It is in the small things we see it.
The child's first step,
as awesome as an earthquake.
The first time you rode a bike,
wallowing up the sidewalk.
The first spanking when your heart
went on a journey all alone.
When they called you crybaby
or poor or fatty or crazy
and made you into an alien,
you drank their acid
and concealed it.
Later,
if you faced the death of bombs and bullets
you did not do it with a banner,
you did it with only a hat to
comver your heart.
You did not fondle the weakness inside you
though it was there.
Your courage was a small coal
that you kept swallowing.
If your buddy saved you
and died himself in so doing,
then his courage was not courage,
it was love; love as simple as shaving soap.
Later,
if you have endured a great despair,
then you did it alone,
getting a transfusion from the fire,
picking the scabs off your heart,
then wringing it out like a sock.
Next, my kinsman, you powdered your sorrow,
you gave it a back rub
and then you covered it with a blanket
and after it had slept a while
it woke to the wings of the roses
and was transformed.
Later,
when you face old age and its natural conclusion
your courage will still be shown in the little ways,
each spring will be a sword you'll sharpen,
those you love will live in a fever of love,
and you'll bargain with the calendar
and at the last moment
when death opens the back door
you'll put on your carpet slippers
and stride out.

It is the courage of the human being
That made the world so beautiful to live with
Through his hard work and intelligence
Made wonderful achievements for human sake
The first set of courageous men's desires
Taught them how to hunter using the stones
They studied the necessity on events
And sharpening the stone articles used for hunting
Their strong courage and determination
Made them active to face the challenges
It is the courage of men in earlier eras
Invented the wind ridden ships and vessels
Through their courage and wisdom
Together with the determination and skills
They found new worlds and new people
They ascertained new avenues of gains
But for the invasions of fight in new places
The stiff competitions the real successors
Survived the fittest among them
It is through the courage adopted from footsteps
Of our bygone era of forefathers
That we learnt the qualities of courage
New inventions now continuing and ongoing
New planets are imminent to conquer
New places we aspire to be conquered
Where human beings will make their new homes
Provided water sources and breathing air is there
It is our courage and wisdom that follows
Through the intelligence and decisiveness
That we gain for a better future
Where the world will be better for tomorrow.

Today I opened wide my eyes,
And stared with wonder and surprise,
To see beneath November skies
An apple blossom peer;
Upon a branch as bleak as night
It gleamed exultant on my sight,
A fairy beacon burning bright
Of hope and cheer.
'Alas! ' said I, 'poor foolish thing,
Have you mistaken this for Spring?
Behold, the thrush has taken wing,
And Winter's near.'
Serene it seemed to lift its head:
'The Winter's wrath I do not dread,
Because I am,' it proudly said,
'A Pioneer.
'Some apple blossom must be first,
With beauty's urgency to burst
Into a world for joy athirst,
And so I dare;
And I shall see what none shall see -
December skies gloom over me,
And mock them with my April glee,
And fearless fare.
'And I shall hear what none shall hear -
The hardy robin piping clear,
The Storm King gallop dark and drear
Across the sky;
And I shall know what none shall know -
The silent kisses of the snow,
The Christmas candles' silver glow,
Before I die.
'Then from your frost-gemmed window pane
One morning you will look in vain,
My smile of delicate disdain
No more to see;
But though I pass before my time,
And perish in the grale and grime,
Maybe you'll have a little rhyme
To spare for me.'

Horatio, of ideal courage vain,
Was flourishing in air his father's cane,
And, as the fumes of valour swelled his pate,
Now thought himself this hero, and now that:
'And now,' he cried, 'I will Achilles be;
My sword I brandish; see, the Trojans flee.
Now I'll be Hector, when his angry blade
A lane through heaps of slaughtered Grecians made!
And now by deeds still braver I'll evince
I am no less than Edward the Black Prince.-
Give way, ye coward French-' As thus he spoke,
And aimed in fancy a sufficient stroke
To fix the fate of Cressy or Poictiers
(The Muse relates the hero's fate with tears);
He struck his milk-white hand against a nail,
Sees his own blood, and feels his courage fail.
Ah! where is now that boasted valour flown,
That in the tented field so late was shown!
Achilles weeps, Great Hector hangs the head,
And the Black Prince goes whimpering to bed.

Most days I feel
Like I am
Losing so much time
Sitting
Waiting
Hoping
For you to change
Never knowing quite for sure
If it is me or you that must change
Always believed that by
Not moving
Making no decision
Is the same as making one
Wondering if it is due to my lack of strength
Or no courage
To take those hits
That will happen if I choose
To move
Now
Wish I knew if this was truly my choice
Or one made only by lack of my courage

When our free land's great captain, Washington,
Was colonel in Virginia, ere the war
He led for Independence had begun,
A passing cloud obscured his rising star:
His sometimes frightful passions woke, and they,
Then unbroke coursers, had their fiery way.
For while between opposing factions there
The bloodless battle by the ballot rolled,
Into one's pride whem he had found unfair
He plunged a speech-wrought weapon, keen and cold;
And the hurt voter, with a blow unmeet,
Stretched his insulter senseless at his feet.
Forth hied the dread news, waxing as it went,
Fed by the food it gave to every tongue;
Uprose, wild-eyed, the wrathful regiment,
And idle swords and flintlocks were unhung,
And marshaled to the drum, whose speedy call
Was like the beating of the hearts of all.
When grief has rage soft pity turns to stone.
These loved their leader as they loved their land;
Aslant, like shining rain, their muskets shone,
And harsh the voice of vengeance pealed command:
'All foully slain our colonel lies, struck down!
On, comrades! Give no quarter! Burn the town!'
Meanwhile, the stricken was made whole again,
And, hurried by the townsfolk, rode to meet
The armed, excited torrent of fierce men
Advancing toward the small, elect'ral street;
And gladly holden in their wond'ring sight,
They pressed around him with unfeigned delight.
But vengeance is so inconsiderate,
Shorn of excuse it yet pursues its prey;
And all the soldiers, filled with gathered hate,
Were willed to leave black ruin on their way.
He charged them, lest the love he bore should cease,
To bate their wrath, and turn again in peace.
So they went back; and slowly he returned,
Chastising his quick passions ruthlessly;
For who, that with a foolish rage has burned,
Knows blame as bitter as his own may be?
But when red morn rolled up its splendid wheel,
Joy followed close on Sorrow's fleeing heel.
For then betimes, a lark-blithe letter flew
Out of a heart where kindness brooded warm;
But to the voter's short and narrow view
It was the white-winged augury of storm;
It asked a meeting only, yet he heard
Of challenge and of duel in the word.
For who could know that one would be so bold
To face and brave the time?-in that it meant
That each his honor on his sword should hold?
The voter straightway to the other went,
And Washington, with courage strong and grand,
Held forth his prudent and heroic hand.
And in his love of truth, sublime and glad,
To him who struck him down he made amends:
'If with the satisfaction you have had
You are content, oh, let us then be friends!
For, looking back on our affray with shame,
I feel that I alone have been to blame.'

(A tribute to the late Pres. Cory Aquino
1933-2009)
In ev’ry light post on an avenue
instead of an ol’ oak tree
as it used to be,
In ev’ry tree along the hi-way
instead of an ol’ oak tree
as it used to be,
In ev’ry edifice high or low
instead of an ol’ oak tree
as it used to be,
In ev’ry single family home
instead of an ol’ oak tree
as it used to be,
In ev’ry private or public vehicle
instead of an ol’ oak tree
as it used to be,
And in ev’ry soul rich or poor on the street
instead of an ol’ oak tree
as it used to be,
One could see a yellow ribbon
big and small tied around it.
symbol of someone returning
in one piece, in triumph but tragic
Comes latitudinarian woman
moxie to fight against tyranny and oppression
Unite Now! Victory is ours!
The obstreperous people power cry
Twenty six years after ubiquitous yellow ribbons
sprouted once more
only to bid farewell to her chanting people
a lasting adieu never to return
Quietus ol’ woman left a legacy
No one could ever forget in every one’s occiput
Keep the corvine neighbors away
Let peace and democracy flourish forever

Call me crazy,
But I’m beginning to think that maybe,
Maybe she was right.
Perhaps it’s time for you to take flight,
Leave me sitting here, cursed,
So you can be with the friend who comes first.
I defended you, said you were a friend,
But I think it’s time for those words to come to an end.
I once heard: “Love many, trust few”
I thought I trusted you, but now I see that this friendship isn’t true.
I waved to you and said “Hi, ”
Now I’m waving, but this time saying “Bye.”
Soon, I’ll cry and make a big deal,
I’ll cry, but I’ll keep this promise sealed.
Just like Taylor said, “I can’t breath without you,
But I have too.”
It’s beginning to get cold
It feels like, to you, my heart’s been sold.
I go sit on the cold ground out side,
And abide for you to choose your side.
Have you ever thought that maybe, your wrong, not me?
Perhaps that’s the key.
Now you can say you’re sorry all you want,
But know she was right again, you’re not.
You’re not Sorry.

Am I crazy, for feeling the way
that I do?
For every waking moment my
thoughts are all of you.
If I lost the bliss of your sweet
kiss, I know not what i'd do.
I would pine away in just one day.
This I know is true.
~
Am I crazy, when this is the way
I feel?
Should I pinch myself to find out
if this feeling is really real? The
beauty of your love has my head
all in a spin. As my heart beats
mellifluously and deep for you
within.
~
Am I crazy, for craving your love
that's so divine?
For needing to hold you closely
in these loving arms of mine.
Darling if i'm crazy for loving you
the way that I do. If I am my love
please keep it, our little secret.
Just between me and you....
********************************** ******
~TJW~

I know, although when looks meet
I tremble to the bone,
The more I leave the door unlatched
The sooner love is gone,
For love is but a skein unwound
Between the dark and dawn.
A lonely ghost the ghost is
That to God shall come;
I - love's skein upon the ground,
My body in the tomb -
Shall leap into the light lost
In my mother's womb.
But were I left to lie alone
In an empty bed,
The skein so bound us ghost to ghost
When he turned his head
passing on the road that night,
Mine must walk when dead.

Every time when you talk to me,
I feel you love me.
Every time when you look at me,
I feel you love me.
Every time when you be with me,
I feel you love me.
Though,
When I want to be with you,
You go away.
When I want to look at you,
You look away.
When I want to talk to you,
You dont talk.
This makes me think..
Why you care for me,
Why you need me,
Why you miss me,
If you don't love,
Why you cry for me? ? ?

Every time you yell,
It's almost like a bridge collapsing.
Every time I cry,
It's like I'm about to reach my breaking point.
These scars on my arms aren't just scars.
They tell stories.
When you get in my face.
I'll make sure I will punch you.
Get too close
I'll shove you away
Break my heart
I'll just walk away.
You see...
You don't scare me.
You don't frighten me.
You don't intimidate me.
So just walk away and forget.
Nothing happened you see.
You are just going crazy..

I go crazy now a day
To esteem you my dear Sun
Your shine, your rays
Hot.. Pierce my skin
Sweat me and drench even
I go crazy now a day
To worship you my dear Moon
Your milky shine, your smiling face
Make me gaze and gaze at you
And lost at you in merry thoughts
I go crazy now a day
To adore you my blue sky
Your sight, you void, beloved plane
Make me feel floating with
Foamy white, and grey folks
Brewing out of frisky frost
I go crazy now a day
To admire you my dear stars
Twinkling with frolic comets
Make me feel jealous of you
To be there, there in glee
Do you know it? why I am
Feeling crazy on you, dear
You only could see my love
Day and night n’ round the clock

It's like I'm going crazy out of my mind
Cause images of you holding my waist from behind
It's crazy how fast I fell in LOVE
Knowing that you're far away I'm missing your kisses and hugs
It's crazy how I can't do any of my work in my classes
Cause the whole time I'm thinking how you keep me laughin
It's crazy how I want to be your wifey
Cause your time is worth more than anything you can buy me
It's crazy how I know we can make sweet music together
And I'll lock you in my heart always and forever.

Riding in the Park, or down town shopping
At the Matinee, or singing in the choir
Everywhere a dazzling blaze of beauty
Blinds my eyes and sets my soul afire
How my heart thumps and how my head whirls!
Don't you look this way, beautiful girls!
Oh, take them away, they'll drive me crazy!
Oh! the saucy, pretty, winnning, witty, mischief-loving girls!
How my heart thumps and how my head whirls!
Don't you look this way, beautiful girls!
Oh, take them away, they'll drive me crazy!
Oh! the saucy, pretty, winnning, witty, mischief-loving girls!
As I sit beside them, charming creatures,
Little do they know how I tempted to
Throw my arms around their necks, and kiss them!
Though, of course, I know it wouldn't do.
Gliding through the gateway, there they go! there they go!
Don't they make you think of broken string of pearls?
Tripping up the stairway, here they come! here they come!
While the zephyrs frolic in their curls.
Every day so near, and yet so distant--
Everywhere so plenty, yet so little mine--
Doubtless they are angels wrongly labelled,
Angels made in other spheres to shine.

Yes its Crazy Love and Yes I am Crazy
Crazy not because I lost my mind, it's because you  steal my mind
Crazy not because of psychological disorder, it's because you  effect  on my mood
Crazy not because I transmigrate(Majnoon)  personality, it's because you  make me 2nd (Majnoon)
Crazy not because I forget all the world except  u, it's because you  make me to forget
Crazy not because I see everything  green n blue, it's because you  make me see everything in different color
Crazy not because I forget how to smile r laugh, it's because you  took all my happiness
Crazy not because I lost the test r feeling, it's because you  control on my all  sensors
Crazy not because I forget how to live, it's because you  took all my life
Yes I am Crazy and Yes its Crazy love

Humans don't like terrorism, violence and war, but only peace;
Peace needs to be promoted by the efforts of people of all creeds;
Creeds or religions are not for imposing on all but for peace only;
Only by betraying, banishing and extraditing outfits, it is possible!
Possibly people of terrorist's religion should betray them sure;
Sure that is the best way to send them out of place in the world;
World doesn't need such kind of beings for world unity and peace;
Peace lies in oneness of God for all religions by fraternity ever!
Ever more than preaching practice is most important to achieve all;
All are for love, joy, peace and development to live as one family;
Family is way of one world life possible only by unity in diversity;
Diversity of all things can't be ironed out by dictatorial command!
Command of military dictator has not achieved anything in history;
History reveals the truth that only by human culture all is possible!

A singer of heart
Of love and joy
Setting words to music,
Giving music to words
By strumming,
Strumming and plucking
And plucking
The wires,
Wires of the guitar,
Bob,
Bob Dylan
A singer of heart,
A guitarist
Pop, jazz and blue
Remixing it all
In the tradition,
Symbolic of the great tradition
Of the American music
Folksy, remixes of the modern and the contemporary
And experimental
Bodily or soul-alluring,
Mundane nor transcendental,
Metaphysical or romantic.

Living,
The culture and the style of the people over here are very different;
And, the society is not much open to all,
With full of doculments needed here and there to proceed on a matter.
Living,
Here on earth with a different society around me;
All in the name of culture and custom,
However, the foreigners among them are really suffering!
All in the name of intergration.
Living,
In the land of papers;
With headaches and depression,
Of talents and time being wasted due to the number of years taken to understand a language.

Education is good, learning is great
One day everyone will have
A University degree but the academia
Will not be so happy
Street cleaners with letters after their name
Cooks with literary degrees,
And the status University gives will mean
Little, everyone is intellectually equal
Something must be done to stop this rot,
Perhaps wood carving will do,
And leave the education to the masses.

Culture’s growth in leaps and bounds,
Must bring it out of its own cage or shell,
To adapt itself to environs new,
Taking the warning of self-destruction,
And relinquish its innate demerits
And primitive principles that elude
Its metamorphosis, remaining fresh
Like a jewel upon the keeper’s hand.

It is in the culture.
Fed to accept,
Deception.
Everyday it's there and in the culture.
Fed to accept,
Deception.
And to reject...
The telling of truth.
It's...
In the culture.
A feeding to accept,
Deception.
Oh,
And...
Everyone expects to be deceived.
And...
Everyone expects they should believe in lies.
And despise...
Believers and the tellers of truth.
It is in the culture.
Fed to accept,
Deception.
Everyday it's there and in the culture.
Fed to accept,
Deception.
And to reject...
The telling of truth.
Oh yes it's there and everywhere,
In the culture.
A feeding to accept,
Deception.
Everywhere and there to believe,
A feeding of deception to receive.
Everyday it's there and in the culture.
Fed to accept,
Deception.
And to reject and disrespect...
The telling of truth.
Booted or diluted is the truth.
Oh...
It's in the culture.
And...
The telling of the truth,
Few people do.
Oh...
It's in the culture.
And...
The telling of the truth,
Few people do.
Oh...
It's in the culture.
And...
The telling of the truth,
Few people do.
Oh...
The telling of the truth,
Few people do.
Oh...
It's in the culture.
And...
The telling of the truth,
Few people do.

Is it modern culture to
Unclothe and denude?
Where are we going to
With our nude photographs?
Have we gone blue
With the blue films?
Do we want to import
The bar culture?

Violence has become the common feature of stories
And movies to thrill the audience with actions..!
Nonviolence in stories and movies are boring to
Read and see according to the audience everywhere!
In reality too, violence seems to be impossible to
Bring to an end to the world starving for peace and
Love everywhere as mechanical money making life is
Full of tension and danger in busymetro cities..!
Love, joy and peace are out of place everywhere now
As thrilling action and pleasure after action are
The regular features of everyday life and movies
That seem to be all right in the world life of all!
This kind of culture-less world is a great jungle...,
But not an Utopian civilization that solves all ills!

When we lose our culture
We lose our identity

At first I thought she waltzed,
but then I saw the error of
my observation powers.
She waddled, all that blubber,
garnished with shoulder pads,
covert suspenders and duct tape,
size called 'infinity', a wave
of air preceded the mass,
mostly the temperature was high
but in the noise of raucous laughter
it was hard to tell what happened.
Yes, men were at her feet, all over
the dancing hall, though hardwood
on a polished floor is without comfort.
No one was able to keep standing,
it was too much to grin and bear.
Majestic gestures emanated, clearly,
there was confusion as to the identity
and origin, was this thing human then?
And, in the end it was decided that
it had been good to have this episode,
though fleeting pay its short visit,
although the most intriguing part
about the thing, consisted of its skills
to speak of things that human beings
hold dear, some raunchy stuff included.
And all were shocked, though pretty glad
when hardwood planks did give and cracked,
and Blubber sank to vanish through the hole,
from where some devils must have grabbed
to commandeer the energy, all the triglycerides,
not food for thought but something quite substantial.

Dance, Dance  Dance
everywhere,
When I look at the sky,
I see the clouds dance
Into steps of winds
My heart dance when I watch clouds dance!
How it can make me dance?
Without any tune or beats,
Its own beats me my heart dance.
Some strange tune it sings in silence and dance!
When I see at shore of ocean waves that dance,
Some birds in sky fly and dance,
On the waves boats that to the tune of waves, dance,
My mind sing lyricless
music to which it dance!
When I walk along the beach,
The headless crown of palm trees with wide open hands dance,
Watching them dance trees start their dance!
When I on countryside, green paddy  fields dance,
Looking at them, the bird on the branch dance!
When walk along, trees with fruits dance,
And to its own rustling music,  leaves dance!
When I walk in the park,
Plants  with flowers dance!
Looking at the graceful dance flowerless  dance,
When I move on street, hope and hap dance,
Seeing at them even hopeless an hapless to dance!
Smile on faces with hope dance,
Wrinkles on the forehead of hapless dance!
When I look at people in them mind dance,
In some happiness dance,
In some sorrowfulness dance,
Some I found with desperation dance
In some their laziness dance,
In some saintliness dance,
Most of the time wickedness dance,
And in some other dreams that dance!
Success that dance with some,
Distress that in unsuccessful dance,
In some hearts mercy that dance
Together with love and kindness dance!
Some where cookedness dance,
And some where innocence dance,
In every nation either hunger dance,
Or in people's mind anger that dance,
Either corruption in corrupt mind dance,
Or those systems on the heart of people dance!
Dance, dance, dance everywhere,
It is time for my soulful dance,
If you see somewhere some other type of dance
Just sing it dance
and let no other see the pain in your heart dance
Hide it with that unfailable lips on which smile may dance
Dance, Dance, dance,
Tune your steps with eternal dance!

Sometimes we do the rumba,
a foxtrot or a jive,
as we dance through our life,
each and every day.
We dance and we dance,
each day through.
Everyday to a different tune,
just to get us through.
In all our loving moments,
we waltz through life,
and in those complicated moments,
we will twist the whole night through.
For everything we do,
there is a dance to get us through.
For every day,
we dance our life away.
17 June 2007

Dance with me
Beauty angel
Dance with me
In the sky...
Dance in the ocean hearts
Dance in the white minds
Dance with me, honey
Dance in the shine
Dance with me
Oh honey......
Make Light's imagine with your Dance
Dance with me
Dance with me in angel's city
Alight fire of love with your dance, honey
Dance with me, dance
Dance with me in our skins
Dance with me
Angel of beauty
Look at me....
Give your hand
Stand up...
Pull out my minds
Come to my real world
Exude your love for me
Come to this world
Dance with me
Again....
Again....
Again....
Dance with me
My heart is alive, again
When you come to my heart
Dance with me
Touch my heart
Feel my silent cry
Please Disencumber mine by my dark prison
I come with you in your paradise
Dance with me
Just for five minute, please

As in the desert,
A sand blows,
It's eastward wings carrying it's wonderous jewels
A lady, dancing no less, her face that of a thousand queens,
Drawing all those about into her deep cavern of mystery,
Her fiery presence both a blessing and a curse,
For there before you now stands the dancer of life.
No lines shall be cut, No rules shall be decided
A wind shall shape the gentle curves,
And water shall give it's shine
As the fire within glows brightly, herself a lady of time
Swords flash in the setting sun,
And veils twirl around her,
A commotion caused over her openess, her trueness
A woman, a woman, not to be free
Not to be opened, not to be seen
No, No, this is not how to be!
She shall not hidden, nor given as a bride
But open her soul, and hold out her pride
There is a dance, a dance to be free
I speak of this dance,
Because between you and me,
It's the dance of the ancients, and the dance of the new
Of the old and the young,
It's the dance of many a tongue,
For this is my dance, my chance to be free
And open and happy, and truely be me

gotta big johnson
gotta big johnson
here in my pants
here in my pants
come on and dance
come on and dance
wid my big johnson
wid my big johnson

Looked forward to the Saturday Night dance
We did, all dressed up to 'shine',
With winkle picker shoes, and layers of net
In our petticoats.  We felt divine.
The 'hair do' backcombed to perfection,
The lipstick a bright Roman Pink,
The 10 denier stockings, were totally great,
And, that handsome Teddy Boy's wink!
Rock and roll, The Twist, The Locomotion,
Were the favourites of the day,
And then there was the 'smoochy' waltz,
When cheek to cheek, we could 'swoon' away.
You sat, until some bold young fella,
Would have the courage to ask you up,
To do 'The Jive' or the 'Cha Cha Cha',
Or to fetch you some wine to sup.
Some lads were delightful to dance with,
While others had two left feet,
But one would have to suffer them gladly,
If you wanted to, leave your seat.
Politeness would rule the evening,
And courtesy was really great,
When someone would give you a lift back home,
If the dance, went on too late.
Gone are those days of feeling feminine,
With the boys, debonair and bold,
But, Oh, it was so romantic then,
When you had a 'strong' hand to hold.
There was fun with the band playing loudly.
When being female, we dressed to 'kill',
And when men were Gents and treated us girls,
With, respect.  Now that was definitely 'BRILL'!
©   Ernestine Northover

Andre fell in love with her beauty,
her royal elegant appearance.
She carried herself proud, purring
like a kitten, never boisterous or loud.
Stroking her perfect body, touching
her curves oh so gently.
He felt like the king of the ball, stood
handsome and so very tall.
Together they made their royal entrance,
totally captivating the audience.
Proud as can be,
they danced- for all to see.
Screams of elation filled the crowd,
while this royal couple took their bows.
A dance performed with perfection,
no need for criticism or direction.
An applaud broke out, a standing ovation.
Smiles laughter an awesome celebration.
The competition ended in glory,
now on with that fairy tale story.

Will you dance with me again?
Like we danced beneath the stars
Swaying in each others arms
To the music of a thousand guitars.
Will you dance with me again?
Like we danced the first time around
When breaths mingled and cheeks caressed
And all we heard was the heartbeat loud.
Will you dance with me again?
Like we did when we kissed
Gently first, and then with passion
When two lives got woven into one.
Will you dance with me again?
Just this one last time
For I want to feel loved
Before the end of lifetime!
(29 May 2007)

Some men, some men
Cannot pass a
Book shop.
(Lady, make your mind up, and wait your life away.)
Some men, some men
Cannot pass a
Crap game.
(He said he'd come at moonrise, and here's another day!)
Some men, some men
Cannot pass a
Bar-room.
(Wait about, and hang about, and that's the way it goes.)
Some men, some men
Cannot pass a
Woman.
(Heaven never send me another one of those!)
Some men, some men
Cannot pass a
Golf course.
(Read a book, and sew a seam, and slumber if you can.)
Some men, some men
Cannot pass a
Haberdasher's.
(All your life you wait around for some damn man!)

Dark girl so filled with strife
Dark Dark girl she'll take your life
Dark girl stay for a while
Dark Dark girl she makes me smile
Dark girl she shows no fear
Dark Dark girl is always near
Dark girl wont see her cry
Dark Dark girl just wants to die
But Dark girl lives in the dark
so you dont see her painfull mark
Dark Dark girl may never know
just how much the light can show

Dying Romantic says:
I walk these streets all alone,
the sound of your voice still ringing on my phone.
You just couldn't leave our past behind,
why must I be the one that's always kind?
Your face haunts my nightmares,
and you always leave me something on the stairs.
I burn it with glee,
and yet you send more to pester me.
This heart can't take any more abuse,
so let me cut you loose.
This is goodbye...
-Dying Romantic
July 20th 2006

This wood burns a dark
Incense. Pale moss drips
In elbow-scarves, beards
From the archaic
Bones of the great trees.
Blue mists move over
A lake thick with fish.
Snails scroll the border
Of the glazed water
With coils of ram's-horn.
Out in the open
Down there the late year
Hammers her rare and
Various metals.
Old pewter roots twist
Up from the jet-backed
Mirror of water
And while the air's clear
Hourglass sifts a
Drift of goldpieces
Bright waterlights are
Sliding their quoits one
After the other
Down boles of the fir.

jazz club
three african men talk about
the jewel in the dark

10
My wheel is in the dark!
I cannot see a spoke
Yet know its dripping feet
Go round and round.
My foot is on the Tide!
An unfrequented road—
Yet have all roads
A clearing at the end—
Some have resigned the Loom—
Some in the busy tomb
Find quaint employ—
Some with new—stately feet—
Pass royal through the gate—
Flinging the problem back
At you and I!

The dark cloud.
It sits around your head
or inside it, more like.
Around your mind,
or inside it.
Around your heart,
or inside it.
Does it reach your knees?
Seems like it, some days.
Your toenails perhaps?
If you let it, it has a voice.
Please don’t listen to it;
that’s really dangerous;
it makes general statements
as if it knows you better than you know yourself
like, ‘your…’ - no, it claims to  BE you -
so, it’s ‘MY life is pointless..’
Have you noticed, it’s
never in front of you,
always somewhere behind you,
whispering over your shoulder
so on a bad day, it’s there in the bed with you
the moment you awake; not of course
in kissing range, that might be fun – but behind you,
murmuring in a bedly voice
‘WE are really down this morning aren’t WE? ’
or it catches up with you in the bathroom
or a bit later, like when you review the day’s appointments
or start out for work.
The First Aid for depression is of course well known
(to everyone else, at some other time…) :
put some music on, sing in the shower,
sit in the brightest light,
toast your hidden beautiful self
in orange juice; take some vigorous exercise,
seek out good company in
someone or something; be
good company yourself, for someone else..
they all work, for a time; but don’t you wish
for the classic fairy tale encounter –
there you are walking through the dark wood
of the dark cloud, and suddenly
the monster springs out in front of you
in all its horror; for the first time
you meet it face to face; it’s
terrifying, but a curious relief:
now you know it’s not you after all,
but something else; you look it in the eye,
you don’t retreat, but march towards it,
say Boo (for linguistic reasons, rather abstruse)
and as you get nearer and nearer to it, the monster
gets smaller and smaller, until…
and then, marching back
triumphant with a spring in your step,
you may feel like
nailing it with a poem, to say
wow I’ve survived;
have a great day!

Everything looks different in the dark
Sometimes I imagine that things that are standing still are moving
And they are not; it is only in my mind
The dark sometimes can be frightening
The dark is like a burned paint
The dark must grieve alone for its lost friend
No one around to hear its silence
But the silence so peaceful that tears the heart
I look back as I am walking to see if anyone is following me
But thanks god no one is
Only the sound of my footsteps I hear
The trees in the dark looks strange to me, I only see a dark shadow

When the dark comes down, oh, the wind is on the sea
With lisping laugh and whimper to the red reef's threnody,
The boats are sailing homeward now across the harbor bar
With many a jest and many a shout from fishing grounds afar.
So furl your sails and take your rest, ye fisher folk so brown,
For task and quest are ended when the dark comes down.
When the dark comes down, oh, the landward valleys fill
Like brimming cups of purple, and on every landward hill
There shines a star of twilight that is watching evermore
The low, dim lighted meadows by the long, dim-lighted shore,
For there, where vagrant daisies weave the grass a silver crown,
The lads and lassies wander when the dark comes down.
When the dark comes down, oh, the children fall asleep,
And mothers in the fisher huts their happy vigils keep;
There's music in the song they sing and music on the sea,
The loving, lingering echoes of the twilight's litany,
For toil has folded hands to dream, and care has ceased to frown,
And every wave's a lyric when the dark comes down.

Your late kind Gift let me restore;
For I must never wear it more.
My Mother cries, ``What's here to do?
``A Crimson Velvet Cap for you!
``If to these Heights so soon you climb,
``You'll wear a Coachman's Cap in time:
``Perhaps on Palfry pace along,
``With ruffled Shirt, and Tete--Moutton;
``Banish the Woman from your Face,
``And let the Rake supply the Place;
``Delighted see the People stare,
``And ask each other what you are?
If she goes on to this dull Tune,
Poor I must be a Quaker soon.
She'll scarcely let me wear a Knot;
But keeps me like a Hottentot;
Says, Dressing plain, at small Expence,
Shews better Taste, and better Sense.
I'd take her Judgment, I confess,
Sooner in any Thing, than Dress;
A Science, which she little knows,
Who only huddles on her Cloaths.
This Day, to please my Brother Con.
She let me put your Present on;
And when she saw me very glad,
Cry'd out, She looks like one that's mad!
``Know, Girl, (says she) that Affectation
``Suits only those in higher Station;
``Who plead Prescription for their Rule,
``Whene'er they please to play the Fool:
``But that it best becomes us Cits,
``To dress like People in their Wits.''

Too soon you wearied of our tears.
And then you danced with spangled feet,
Leading Belshazzar's chattering court
A-tinkling through the shadowy street.
With mead they came, with chants of shame.
DESIRE'S red flag before them flew.
And Istar's music moved your mouth
And Baal's deep shames rewoke in you.
Now you could drive the royal car;
Forget our Nation's breaking load:
Now you could sleep on silver beds.—
(Bitter and dark was our abode.)
And so, for many a night you laughed,
And knew not of my hopeless prayer,
Till God's own spirit whipped you forth
From Istar's shrine, from Istar's stair.
Darling daughter of Babylon—
Rose by the black Euphrates flood—
Again your beauty grew more dear
Than my slave's bread, than my heart's blood.
We sang of Zion, good to know,
Where righteousness and peace abide. . . .
What of your second sacrilege
Carousing at Belshazzar's side?
Once, by a stream, we clasped tired hands—
Your paint and henna washed away.
Your place, you said, was with the slaves
Who sewed the thick cloth, night and day.
You were a pale and holy maid
Toil-bound with us. One night you said:—
"Your God shall be my God until
I slumber with the patriarch dead."
Pardon, daughter of Babylon,
If, on this night remembering
Our lover walks under the walls
Of hanging gardens in the spring,
A venom comes from broken hope,
From memories of your comrade-song
Until I curse your painted eyes
And do your flower-mouth too much wrong.

Father and daughter spend some quiet time together in the living room
Shining through the curtain is the sun
And outside is the glorious afternoon
Father reads to his daughter the poetry she loves
Father and daughter enjoy each other's company
Father takes his daughter by the hand
As they take a walk outside
Father cares for his daughter
And always wishes the very best to happen for her

Shall I woo the one or other?
Both attract me--more's the pity!
Pretty is the widowed mother,
And the daughter, too, is pretty.
When I see that maiden shrinking,
By the gods I swear I'll get 'er!
But anon I fall to thinking
That the mother 'll suit me better!
So, like any idiot ass
Hungry for the fragrant fodder,
Placed between two bales of grass,
Lo, I doubt, delay, and dodder!

Among the daisies
sat the child,
looking so ever
meek and mild.
Mother sat down
by the child,
looked at her daughter
and sweetly smiled.
Picking the daisies
with the child,
from those gathered
a chain was stylized.
Around the neck
of the child,
she placed the chain
of daisies wild.
Touching the daisies
the deaf child,
looked at her mother
and sweetly smiled.

Four-and-twenty bonny boys
Were playing at the ba,
And by it came him sweet Sir Hugh,
And he playd o'er them a'.
He kickd the ba with his right foot
And catchd it wi his knee,
And throuch-and-thro the Jew's window
He gard the bonny ba flee.
He's doen him to the Jew's castell
And walkd it round about;
And there he saw the Jew's daughter,
At the window looking out.
'Throw down the ba, ye Jew's daughter,
Throw down the ba to me!'
'Never a bit,' says the Jew's daughter,
'Till up to me come ye.'
'How will I come up? How can I come up?
How can I come to thee?
For as ye did to my auld father,
The same ye'll do to me.'
She's gane till her father's garden,
And pu'd an apple red and green;
'Twas a' to wyle him sweet Sir Hugh,
And to entice him in.
She's led him in through ae dark door,
And sae has she thro nine;
She's laid him on a dressing-table,
And stickit him like a swine.
And first came out the thick, thick blood,
And syne came out the thin;
And syne came out the bonny heart's blood;
There was nae mair within.
She's rowd him in a cake o lead,
Bade him lie still and sleep;
She's thrown him in Our Lady's draw-well,
Was fifty fathom deep.
When bells were rung, and mass was sung,
And a' the bairns came hame,
When every lady gat hame her son,
The Lady Maisry gat nane.
She's taen her mantle her about,
Her coffer by the hand,
And she's gane out to seek her son,
And wandered o'er the land.
She's doen her to the Jew's castell,
Where a' were fast asleep:
'Gin ye be there, my sweet Sir Hugh,
I pray you to me speak.'
'Gae hame, gae hame, my mither dear,
Prepare my winding-sheet,
And at the back o merry Lincoln
The morn I will you meet.'
Now Lady Maisry is gane hame,
Make him a winding-sheet,
And at the back o merry Lincoln,
The dead corpse did her meet.
And a the bells o merry Lincoln
Without men's hands were rung,
And a' the books o merry Lincoln
Were read without man's tongue,
And neer was such a burial
Sin Adam's days begun.

Seven stars in the still water,
And seven in the sky;
Seven sins on the King's daughter,
Deep in her soul to lie.
Red roses are at her feet,
(Roses are red in her red-gold hair)
And O where her bosom and girdle meet
Red roses are hidden there.
Fair is the knight who lieth slain
Amid the rush and reed,
See the lean fishes that are fain
Upon dead men to feed.
Sweet is the page that lieth there,
(Cloth of gold is goodly prey,)
See the black ravens in the air,
Black, O black as the night are they.
What do they there so stark and dead?
(There is blood upon her hand)
Why are the lilies flecked with red?
(There is blood on the river sand.)
There are two that ride from the south and east,
And two from the north and west,
For the black raven a goodly feast,
For the King's daughter rest.
There is one man who loves her true,
(Red, O red, is the stain of gore!)
He hath duggen a grave by the darksome yew,
(One grave will do for four.)
No moon in the still heaven,
In the black water none,
The sins on her soul are seven,
The sin upon his is one.

King’s daughter sitting in tower so high,
Fair summer is on many a shield.
Why weepest thou as the clouds go by?
Fair sing the swans ’twixt firth and field.
Why weepest thou in the window-seat
Till the tears run through thy fingers sweet?
The King’s Daughter.
I weep because I sit alone
Betwixt these walls of lime and stone.
Fair folk are in my father’s hall,
But for me he built this guarded wall.
And here the gold on the green I sew
Nor tidings of my true-love know.
The Raven.
King’s daughter, sitting above the sea,
I shall tell thee a tale shall gladden thee.
Yestreen I saw a ship go forth
When the wind blew merry from the north.
And by the tiller Steingrim sat,
And O, but my heart was glad thereat!
For ’twixt ashen plank and dark blue sea
His sword sang sweet of deeds to be.
The King’s Daughter.
O barren sea, thou bitter bird,
And a barren tale my ears have heard.
The Raven.
Thy father’s men were hard thereby
In byrny bright and helmet high.
The King’s Daughter.
O worser waxeth thy story far,
For these drew upon me bolt and bar.
Fly south, O fowl, to the field of death
For nothing sweet thy grey neb saith.
The Raven.
O, there was Olaf the lily-rose,
As fair as any oak that grows.
The King’s Daughter.
O sweet bird, what did he then
Among the spears of my father’s men?
The Raven.
’Twixt ashen plank and dark blue sea,
He sang: My true love waiteth me.
The King’s Daughter.
As well as this dull floor knows my feet,
I am not weary yet, my sweet.
The Raven.
He sang: As once her hand I had,
Her lips at last shall make me glad.
The King’s Daughter.
As once our fingers met, O love,
So shall our lips be fain thereof.
The Raven.
He sang: Come wrack and iron and flame,
For what shall breach the wall but fame?
The King’s Daughter.
Be swift to rise and set, O Sun,
Lest life ’twixt hope and death be done.
The Raven.
King’s daughter sitting in tower so high,
A gift for my tale ere forth I fly,
The gold from thy finger fair and fine,
Thou hadst it from no love of thine.
The King’s Daughter.
By my father’s ring another there is,
I had it with my mother’s kiss.
Fly forth, O fowl, across the sea
To win another gift of me.
Fly south to bring me tidings true,
Fair summer is on many a shield.
Of the eve grown red with the battle-dew,
Fair sing the swans ’twixt firth and field.
The Raven.
King’s daughter sitting in tower so high,
Fair summer is on many a shield.
Tidings to hearken ere thou die,
Fair sing the swans ’twixt firth and field.
In the Frankish land the spear points met,
And wide about the field was wet.
And high ere the cold moon quenched the sun,
Blew Steingrim’s horn for battle won.
The King’s Daughter.
Fair fall thee fowl! Tell tidings true
Of deeds that men that day did do.
The Raven.
Steingrim before his banner went,
And helms were broke and byrnies rent.
The King’s Daughter.
A doughty man and good at need;
Tell men of any other’s deed?
The Raven.
Where Steingrim through the battle bore
Still Olaf went a foot before.
The King’s Daughter.
O fair with deeds the world doth grow!
Where is my true-love gotten now?
The Raven.
Upon the deck beside the mast
He lieth now, and sleepeth fast.
The King’s Daughter.
Heard’st thou before his sleep began
That he spake word of any man?
The Raven.
Methought of thee he sang a song,
But nothing now he saith for long.
The King’s Daughter.
And wottest thou where he will wend
With the world before him from end to end?
The Raven.
Before the battle joined that day
Steingrim a word to him did say:
“If we bring the banner back in peace,
In the King’s house much shall my fame increase;
Till there no guarded door shall be
But it shall open straight to me.
Then to the bower we twain shall go
Where thy love the golden seam doth sew.
I shall bring thee in and lay thine hand
About the neck of that lily-wand.
And let the King be lief or loth
One bed that night shall hold you both.”
Now north belike runs Steingrim’s prow,
And the rain and the wind from the south do blow.
The King’s Daughter.
Lo, fowl of death, my mother’s ring,
But the bridal song I must learn to sing.
And fain were I for a space alone,
For O the wind, and the wind doth moan.
And I must array the bridal bed,
Fair summer is on many a shield.
For O the rain, and the rain drifts red!
Fair sing the swans ’twixt firth and field.
Before the day from the night was born,
Fair summer is on many a shield.
She heard the blast of Steingrim’s horn,
Fair sing the swans ’twixt firth and field.
Before the day was waxen fair
Were Steingrim’s feet upon the stair.
“O bolt and bar they fall away,
But heavy are Steingrim’s feet to-day.”
“O heavy the feet of one who bears
The longing of days and the grief of years!
Lie down, lie down, thou lily-wand
That on thy neck I may lay his hand.
Whether the King be lief or loth
To-day one bed shall hold you both.
O thou art still as he is still,
So sore as ye longed to talk your fill.
And good it were that I depart,
Now heart is laid so close to heart.
For sure ye shall talk so left alone
Fair summer is on many a shield.
Of days to be below the stone.”
Fair sing the swans ’twixt firth and field.

She’s a joy she’s an angel’ well that’s what she thinks
She clings on to your heart like a plug to a sink
She drives you all crazy with make believe games
She’ll have you believe that fairies fly planes
She often comes in with imaginary friends
And can draw on their dads with permanent pens
She has pretty parties with dolls as her mates
But then runs straight out and she swings on the gate
She listens to stories of love and romance
Then shoves a live frog in her best friends pants
At night when asleep the angels go quiet
I often do think that she could start a riot
She looks like a princess all said and done
And Uses mums lipstick to draw a big sun
All over the walls and down the settee
Her face is alive and she giggles with glee
Its then that you have to be strong and quite firm
For if you stand back she will never quite learn
And learn things she does most every day
She learns how to get thing her very own way
She came into your life and captured your heart
And then from that time you won’t stay apart
You may keep your son till he finds a good wife
But your daughters your daughter for all of her life

Now while my lips are living
Their words must stay unsaid,
And will my soul remember
To speak when I am dead?
Yet if my soul remembered
You would not heed it, dear,
For now you must not listen,
And then you could not hear.

"His Grace! impossible! what, dead!
Of old age too, and in his bed!
And could that mighty warrior fall,
And so inglorious, after all?
Well, since he's gone, no matter how,
The last loud trump must wake him now;
And, trust me, as the noise grows stronger,
He'd wish to sleep a little longer.
And could he be indeed so old
As by the newspapers we're told?
Threescore, I think, is pretty high;
'Twas time in conscience he should die!
This world he cumber'd long enough;
He burnt his candle to the snuff;
And that's the reason, some folks think,
He left behind so great a stink.
Behold his funeral appears,
Nor widows' sighs, nor orphans' tears,
Wont at such times each heart to pierce,
Attend the progress of his hearse.
But what of that? his friends may say,
He had those honours in his day.
True to his profit and his pride,
He made them weep before he died
Come hither, all ye empty things!
Ye bubbles rais'd by breath of kings!
Who float upon the tide of state;
Come hither, and behold your fate!
Let pride be taught by this rebuke,
How very mean a thing's a duke;
From all his ill-got honours flung,
Turn'd to that dirt from whence he sprung"

I.
Death is here and death is there,
Death is busy everywhere,
All around, within, beneath,
Above is death—and we are death.
II.
Death has set his mark and seal
On all we are and all we feel,
On all we know and all we fear,
...
III.
First our pleasures die—and then
Our hopes, and then our fears—and when
These are dead, the debt is due,
Dust claims dust—and we die too.
IV.
All things that we love and cherish,
Like ourselves must fade and perish;
Such is our rude mortal lot--
Love itself would, did they not.

It is not death, that sometime in a sigh
This eloquent breath shall take its speechless flight;
That sometime these bright stars, that now reply
In sunlight to the sun, shall set in night;
That this warm conscious flesh shall perish quite,
And all life's ruddy springs forget to flow;
That thoughts shall cease, and the immortal sprite
Be lapped in alien clay and laid below;
It is not death to know this,--but to know
That pious thoughts, which visit at new graves
In tender pilgrimage, will cease to go
So duly and so oft,--and when grass waves
Over the past-away, there may be then
No resurrection in the minds of men.

Hey Father Death, I'm flying home
Hey poor man, you're all alone
Hey old daddy, I know where I'm going
Father Death, Don't cry any more
Mama's there, underneath the floor
Brother Death, please mind the store
Old Aunty Death Don't hide your bones
Old Uncle Death I hear your groans
O Sister Death how sweet your moans
O Children Deaths go breathe your breaths
Sobbing breasts'll ease your Deaths
Pain is gone, tears take the rest
Genius Death your art is done
Lover Death your body's gone
Father Death I'm coming home
Guru Death your words are true
Teacher Death I do thank you
For inspiring me to sing this Blues
Buddha Death, I wake with you
Dharma Death, your mind is new
Sangha Death, we'll work it through
Suffering is what was born
Ignorance made me forlorn
Tearful truths I cannot scorn
Father Breath once more farewell
Birth you gave was no thing ill
My heart is still, as time will tell.

I have a rendezvous with Death
At some disputed barricade,
When Spring comes back with rustling shade
And apple-blossoms fill the air—
I have a rendezvous with Death
When Spring brings back blue days and fair.
It may be he shall take my hand
And lead me into his dark land
And close my eyes and quench my breath—
It may be I shall pass him still.
I have a rendezvous with Death
On some scarred slope of battered hill,
When Spring comes round again this year
And the first meadow-flowers appear.
God knows 'twere better to be deep
Pillowed in silk and scented down,
Where love throbs out in blissful sleep,
Pulse nigh to pulse, and breath to breath,
Where hushed awakenings are dear . . .
But I've a rendezvous with Death
At midnight in some flaming town,
When Spring trips north again this year,
And I to my pledged word am true,
I shall not fail that rendezvous.

THERE 's little joy in life for me,
And little terror in the grave ;
I 've lived the parting hour to see
Of one I would have died to save.
Calmly to watch the failing breath,
Wishing each sigh might be the last ;
Longing to see the shade of death
O'er those belovèd features cast.
The cloud, the stillness that must part
The darling of my life from me ;
And then to thank God from my heart,
To thank Him well and fervently ;
Although I knew that we had lost
The hope and glory of our life ;
And now, benighted, tempest-tossed,
Must bear alone the weary strife.

Tired with all these, for restful death I cry,
As to behold desert a beggar born,
And needy nothing trimmed in jollity,
And purest faith unhappily forsworn,
And gilded honour shamefully misplaced,
And maiden virtue rudely strumpeted,
And right perfection wrongfully disgraced,
And strength by limping sway disablèd
And art made tongue-tied by authority,
And folly doctor-like controlling skill,
And simple truth miscalled simplicity,
And captive good attending captain ill.
Tired with all these, from these would I be gone,
Save that to die, I leave my love alone.

I woke in a place that was dark
The air was spicy and still
I was bandaged from head to foot
The morning that death was killed.
I rose from a mattress of stone
I folded my clothes on the sill
I heard the door rolling open
The morning that death was killed.
I walked alone in the garden
The birds in the branches trilled
It felt like a new beginning
The morning that death was killed.
Mary, she came there to find me
Peter with wonder was filled
And John came running and jumping
The morning that death was killed.
My friends were lost in amazement
My father, I knew, was thrilled
Things were never the same again
After the morning that death was killed.

Depression is being lonely in a room full of people
Depression is being constantly tired but never able to sleep
Depression is longing to be with others yet not being able to cope with company
Depression makes you lose your appetite and eat yourself fat
Depression is smiling to hide the pain inside
Depression is when the soul dies but the body keeps on living
Depression is forgetting who you used to be
Depression is not knowing if you could survive without it
Depression is being sad when nothing is wrong
Depression is not caring whether you live or die
Depression is having no interest in the things you used to love
Depression is lying awake for hours in bed at night contemplating the best way to kill yourself only to realise that you can’t be bothered.

Depression is raging.
In the mist of its anger.
It eats my happiness.
Fasting on my sadness.
Depression has its hold on me.
Throwing me into despair.
Making me more and more insane
As my mind it drains.
Depression'll take me all the more
It dosent care so long as it has its hit.
It hates me every single bit.
Every day it kills me a bit more.
It wont stop till its had its frill
It wont stop till its got me dead.

The unnamed feelings
Eating me alive, and depression
Is lying inside....
As the thin dark ropes falling from the sky
The brown knots are dancing in front of my eyes
I quickly closed them and pray
'God, am I losing my mind? '
I hold my blade and cut my unloved wrist
It's bleeding still but I can't feel relief yet
I ran to the balcony as am looking down and wondering
If the height is enough to smash my head over the floor?
Will it be enough to break my out through this door?
The monster inside my head is calling my name
And asking me to suicide...
It screams inside and then orders me to die
Die dying...
You are not alive
Just cut it deeper and die...you don't want to survive
'God, I'm screaming for your help
I'm begging for a relief
A moment of inner peace
Did you forget me I'm still here living in this empty shell f grief
Can't you remember me....?

I got these pills for christmas
but not from santa claus
i got them from the pharmacy
with the greengrocer next door.
They're really very nice pills
i take them all the time
and even when its raining
i say the weather's fine.
They're very cost effective
about ten bucks a week
and for all the good they do for me
they're really very cheap.
I have to say i'm nervous
each time i get a scrip
i whisper what i'm buying
they often have to read my lips.
You see i suffer from depression
and i'm scared if people know
they think i'm all peculiar
and say 'sorry gotta go'.
It's quite lonely being lonely
it's lonely by myself
it's lonely being a victim
of imperfect mental health.

Some one is hiding her depression
She smiles and shows good impressions
Never does she show her depression
And to fake good impressions
Even though her smiles are fake
She still hides her mistakes

Oh!  Depression!
I love you
And you love me
You are my life and my need
You are my love and passion too
You are my soul
The light through which I see this dreary world
Oh! Depression, Depression!
Together we shall die.
All at once, jostled by a thunderbolt
Lo! Behold! A ray of light
GOD said, Do not fret my child
What my child want, I give
Tears of joy and ecstasy streamed down my eyes,
My prayers were answered.

When you try to make it better
With the truths you hold so close
And the lies made up apart of you
To the ones you hate the most
Something screams inside I'll never change
When your thoughts are painted black
Someone chose for me to be this way...
And there's only me to thank
And when your heart falls in the way you think
There's really no turning back
And the ones you think you thought you loved
Could never judge the way you act
You've played this part for way to long
Now the center stage is clear
Grab my wrist and hold it tight
Tell me nothing's left to fear...
I thought words could explain the way I feel
But now I know that's just a lie
Grab my wrist and hold it tight
I'm coming home tonight
When I go just leave the door unlocked
I'll make it worth my while
When the high gets low
And my conviction stands
Just look at me and smile...

I have an alco friend who tried strangling himself
He also attempted to poison himself
After consuming a bottle of Beam
He swallowed painkillers and nearly died.
I know a bulimic girl who wants to kill herself
She thinks of jumping into a pool
With a heavy brick tied to her neck
After she eats - she always throws up.
I know a girl who cuts herself, so her legs hurt
In the blood she finds relief
She doesn't know the other way
To help her deal with emotional pain
He thinks he is too ugly and will never change
So he's depressed
She thinks she is too fat
So she's depressed
She thinks that her parents don't love her
So she's depressed
Their solutions are worse than their problems...
Which makes me depressed.

Depression is a fight
Or a flight
Depression is a theif
That should be locked up
Depression steals...
Happiness
Motivation
Sleep
Your appetite
It steals your view on life
It steals how you view yourself
Sometimes it even steals your life

I love the hours of misty morn
When clouds descend and kiss with dew
Lilac, verbena, rose bud and thorn.
In perfumed morn, I think of you.
I love the hours of warm sunlight.
Your beauty is everything I see
And I feel you almost in my sight;
But your spectrum is a mystery.
I love the hour of magic light.
All colors are pleasing to the eye
While I think of you in seraph flight
Aureole, wings, in chromatic sky.
I love the hours of blissful night
And I feel you close in candlelight.
When I fall asleep you hold me tight.
With your love and hope, I greet the light.

DESPAIR IN OLD AGE
Despair in old age
Dead friends
Friends sick and dying
The choice between the treatment
That draws the suffering out
And the sooner and more painful death
The boredom
The sense of one’s own uselessness
The futile striving to not be a hindrance to others
The vain effort not to look like a shipwreck
The sick smell of oneself
The loss of power in so many ways
The small naps in public places
The sense of one’s own uselessness
The understanding one has done what one could
And not done enough
And not done the best
The regret
The hatred of having others doing simple things for you
You can no longer do for yourself
The weakness
The aching
The pain
The boredom
The slowness of mind
The loss of interest
The feeling of oneself as a burden a disappointment
To others
The despair
The hopelessness
The wishing were all over
And the understanding that to finish it
Is to be a coward and leave a horrible legacy
The having too much time and remembering when one never had enough
The feeling of one’s own uselessness
The letting loved ones down
The loneliness
The boredom
The sadness
The hatred and contempt for oneself
And what one has against one’s every wish, become.
The long drawn-out never ending hopelessness of it all.

Despair outloud
Despair and fear
Its all despair when noone hears
My soul is screaching
It mouns to you
Its like a whisper, its like a flute
The midnight fence, that holds me back
It aches my heart with metal bars
Despair is all i know
Despair its lonely yet its my home
Despair is simple, it holds 7 words
Despair
come join me
We wont die alone

I search the world for answers
to the questions in my mind.
Although, it seems those answers
are the ones I'll never find.
In dark despair I call out.
I scream for help and light.
The source of deep depression
is something I must fight.
I try to ''keep my chin up''
and ''focus on the ball'',
but everytime I take a step
I also take a fall.
For those of us who fight them,
the demons in our head,
we have to force ourselves to sleep
each time we go to bed.
Without my faith in Jesus
and my love of family,
I don't know where I would end up
but I know I wouldn't be free.

Such hope, as is the sick despair of good,
Such fear, as is the certainty of ill,
Such doubt, as is pale Expectation’s food
Turned while she tastes to poison, when the will
Is powerless, and the spirit...

In grayish doubt and black despair,
I drafted hymns to the earth and the air,
pretending to joy, although I lacked it.
The age had made lament redundant.
So here's the question -- who can answer it --
Was he a brave man or a hypocrite?

TERRIFIC FIEND! thou Monster fell,
Condemn'd in haunts profane to dwell,
Why quit thy solitary Home,
O'er wide Creation's paths to roam?
Pale Tyrant of the timid Heart,
Whose visionary spells can bind
The strongest passions of the mind,
Freezing Life's current with thy baneful Art.
Nature recoils when thou art near,
For round thy form all plagues are seen;
Thine is the frantic tone, the sullen mien,
The glance of petrifying fear,
The haggard Brow, the low'ring Eye,
The hollow Cheek, the smother'd Sigh,
When thy usurping fangs assail,
The sacred Bonds of Friendship fail.
Meek-bosom'd Pity sues in vain;
Imperious Sorrow spurns relief,
Feeds on the luxury of Grief,
Drinks the hot Tear, and hugs the galling Chain.
AH! plunge no more thy ruthless dart,
In the dark centre of the guilty Heart;
The POW'R SUPREME, with pitying eye,
Looks on the erring Child of Misery;
MERCY arrests the wing of Time;
To expiate the wretch's crime;
Insulted HEAV'N consign'd thy brand
To the first Murd'rer's crimson hand.
Swift o'er the earth the Monster flew,
And round th' ensanguin'd Poisons threw,
By CONSCIENCE goaded­driven by FEAR,
Till the meek Cherub HOPE subdued his fell career.
Thy Reign is past, when erst the brave
Imbib'd contagion o'er the midnight lamp,
Close pent in loathsome cells, where poisons damp
Hung round the confines of a Living Grave; *
Where no glimm'ring ray illum'd
The flinty walls, where pond'rous chains
Bound the wan Victim to the humid earth,
Where VALOUR, GENIUS, TASTE, and WORTH,
In pestilential caves entomb'd,
Sought thy cold arms, and smiling mock'd their pains.
THERE,­each procrastinated hour
The woe-worn suff'rer gasping lay,
While by his side in proud array
Stalk'd the HUGE FIEND, DESPOTIC POW'R.
There REASON clos'd her radiant eye,
And fainting HOPE retir'd to die,
Truth shrunk appall'd,
In spells of icy Apathy enthrall'd;
Till FREEDOM spurn'd the ignominious chain,
And roused from Superstition's night,
Exulting Nature claim'd her right,
And call'd dire Vengeance from her dark domain.
Now take thy solitary flight
Amid the turbid gales of night,
Where Spectres starting from the tomb,
Glide along th' impervious gloom;
Or, stretch'd upon the sea-beat shore,
Let the wild winds, as they roar,
Rock Thee on thy Bed of Stone;
Or, in gelid caverns pent,
Listen to the sullen moan
Of subterranean winds;­or glut thy sight
Where stupendous mountains rent
Hurl their vast fragments from their dizzy height.
At Thy approach the rifted Pine
Shall o'er the shatter'd Rock incline,
Whose trembling brow, with wild weeds drest,
Frowns on the tawny EAGLE's nest;
THERE enjoy the 'witching hour,
And freeze in Frenzy's dire conceit,
Or seek the Screech-owl's lone retreat,
On the bleak rampart of some nodding Tow'r.
In some forest long and drear,
Tempt the fierce BANDITTI's rage,
War with famish'd Tygers wage,
And mock the taunts of Fear.
When across the yawning deep,
The Demons of the Tempest sweep,
Or deaf'ning Thunders bursting cast
Their red bolts on the shivering mast,
While fix'd below the sea-boy stands,
As threat'ning Death his soul dismays,
He lifts his supplicating hands,
And shrieks, and groans, and weeps, and prays,
Till lost amid the floating fire
The agonizing crew expire;
THEN let thy transports rend the air,
For mad'ning Anguish feeds DESPAIR.
When o'er the couch of pale Disease
The MOTHER bends, with tearful eye,
And trembles, lest her quiv'ring sigh,
Should wake the darling of her breast,
Now, by the taper's feeble rays,
She steals a last, fond, eager gaze.
Ah, hapless Parent! gaze no more,
Thy CHERUB soars among the Blest,
Life's crimson Fount begins to freeze,
His transitory scene is o'er.
She starts­she raves­her burning brain,
Consumes, unconscious of its fires,
Dead to the Heart's convulsive Pain,
Bewilder'd Memory retires.
See! See! she grasps her flowing hair,
From her fix'd eye the big drops roll,
Her proud Affliction mocks controul,
And riots in DESPAIR,
Such are thy haunts, malignant Pow'r,
There all thy murd'rous Poisons pour;
But come not near my calm retreat,
Where Peace and holy FRIENDSHIP meet;
Where SCIENCE sheds a gentle ray,
And guiltless Mirth beguiles the day,
Where Bliss congenial to the MUSE
Shall round my Heart her sweets diffuse,
Where, from each restless Passion free,
I give my noiseless hours, BLESS'D POETRY, TO THEE.

When things beyond my control do occur,
And fortune favors just the evil minds:
When my own people with me don’t concur,
My remnant patience to a halt well grinds.
The world is inimical to my deeds,
And evil seems to win Tho’ just for now;
When God has forgotten my long-felt needs,
My ignominy, I must undergo.
Though Hope may be replaced by Despair, still
The turning point of life for me is near;
Success is nigh and I’ll go for the kill;
My savior keeps me confident sans fear.
Nothing’s achieved when despair rules our hearts;
Impatience only ruins all our arts.
7-8-2002

Triangles of half-open doors
Reveal all the truth that is hidden:
Just condoms and cans on the floor,
Black papers with verses, forbidden -
Unfinished remakes of the song,
Deprived of the right to speak loud
Of wicked intentions gone wrong -
Erasers have muffled the shout.
The only illusion-proof mind -
A poet, the voice of despair,
Sincere, the one of this kind
Throws verses far into the air
Right there, in a dirty old flat
Among once great talents, now rotten.
They all have deserved more than that,
But even their names are forgotten.

There is always a choice to make
When two paths merge and life takes a break
For a split second, all things are one
As destiny and chaos collide once more
When two paths merge and life takes a break
No one will warn you that it is already to late
To change the path you have taken
As destiny and chaos collide once more
For a split second, all things are one
In that moment, you realize God will not be outdone
This place and time will no longer exist
As destiny and chaos collide once more
No one will warn you it is already too late
The first man and woman sealed your fate
Nothing can stop what was meant to be
As destiny and chaos collide once more
To change the path you have taken
The original spirit must reawaken
To be forsaken was never part of the master plan
As destiny and chaos collide once more
In that moment, you realize God will not be outdone
By now you realize that life is not a dry run
No second chances are guaranteed
As destiny and chaos collide once more
This place and time will no longer exist
And mankind is summarily dismissed
For failing to exercise discipline and reproof
As destiny and chaos collide once more
The first man and woman sealed your fate
The choice is no longer yours to make
What you do now is fruit of the poisonous tree
As destiny and chaos collide once more
Nothing can stop what was meant to be
Two paths have merged into life’s potpourri
The world is filled with to much hate
As destiny and chaos collide once more
The original spirit must reawaken
Or those waiting for the rapture will not be taken
It will all be for not in the end
As destiny and chaos collide once more
To be forsaken was never part of the master plan
The time has come to take a stand
What you do now repeats the past of long ago
As destiny and chaos collide once more
By now you realize that life is not a dry run
What has been will always return
As it was in ancient times, so it will be
As destiny and chaos collide once more
No second chances are guaranteed
No end in sight, no need to proceed
Since all you know will be forgotten
As destiny and chaos collide once more
And mankind is summarily dismissed
Because he labors for vanity
His soul adrift in a sea of confusion
As destiny and chaos collide once more

Destiny where do I find you?
Destiny where can I look for you?
Destiny where are you hiding?
Why are you hiding from me?
Destiny what do you have for me?
Destiny what are my options?
Destiny which door is open for me?
Destiny do you have anything for me that I might want?
Destiny can I get any satisfaction from you?
Destiny are you my friend?

They deliver the edicts of God
without delay
And are exempt from apprehension
from detention
And with their God-given
Petasus, Caduceus, and Talaria
ferry like bolts of lightning
unhindered between the tribunals
of Space & Time
The Messenger-Spirit
in human flesh
is assigned a dependable,
self-reliant, versatile,
thoroughly poet existence
upon its sojourn in life
It does not knock
or ring the bell
or telephone
When the Messenger-Spirit
comes to your door
though locked
It'll enter like an electric midwife
and deliver the message
There is no tell
throughout the ages
that a Messenger-Spirit
ever stumbled into darkness

Dealing with your life in a nowhere land,
Establishing connections, but breaking something else,
Surrounded by the sharks, hiding for happiness,
Trying to fight desires, dreams and passions that can tempt
Invading your mind and soul with flakes of love like a tsunami…
None of us knows the way to the unleashed passion…
You know that even though… there is a thing we cannot stop…
And that is… our destiny!

The emotions deep inside me begin to whirl up within
As the images of the past sweep by my mind
Shadows of deadly betrayal imprison my brain
And impressions of shattered faith is left behind
With memories of the past surrounding me
I lost myself once more in thoughts of thee
I know not when I lost my conviction
Suffering from the woes of eviction
Oceans of tears flowed from my eyes
With each tear a sentiment died
There was no support
There were no sighs
Night after night I simply cried
In the arms of despondence now I lie
Remembering each beat of our heart
With each thrash now my feelings die
With each passing moment we further part
My eyes burnt, I weep no more
Darkness and gloom reign over me
With eyes of my mind I saw a “we”
What with open eyes I couldn’t see
My prayer still unanswered
My contemplation still vague
My body still untouched
My soul still enduring the plague
There is no end to the feeling of being slaughtered
For sorrow and pain are now friends of mine
May you be blessed now and forever
For my true heart shall always remain thine
My feet has finally struck the ground
And I find myself lonely no more
The waves break with a shattering sound
And I reach out my hand to touch the shore

If my destiny is already chosen....
Then why do I need to make it MINE?
If I was to live like this
Then why did I have to redefine
The meaning of death
And this drastic lose of faith...?
Gods are getting scarce.......
Worshipping affinity we are
Distortion's the order of the day
Mistrust is here only to stay
Stitching together
The images of fear
Destiny replacing 'curse'.....
Gods... they ARE getting scarce.......

MY DESTINY
In a foggy mist stood a colossal gate
Where an angel stood to contemplate my faith.
Beyond the gates of heaven I saw
A world that simply left me in awe.
So I turned to the angel anxiety struck
Gathering my nerve I began to stammer
'What can I do to please the Lord,
Present to him a melody, perhaps a secret chord? ”
Said to me the angel serenely and tenderly,
'You stand right here before me
With your life serving testimony,
On earth itself you have formed your own destiny.'
As my life rewound in front of my eyes,
I couldn’t help but simply despise
My life on earth that I lived so callously
I alone was to be blamed for my destiny.
Through my window I could see the azure sky
The dream was obscure but the meaning alive.
I got up in a flash and slowly started to ponder
On my wayward life and precious moments squandered
I’ll change my ways, I’ll mend my life
As no secret chord could ever suffice.
To please the lord I’ll change within me
After all it is me who chooses my own destiny.
By Lynn Ann Lobo

Cloaked in disguises
In the alley of thieves,
I’m violently tested and seeking reprieves
From tortuous days
Of casual deceptions
And blatant lies,
But Luna and youth
Have disappeared
And I remain despised
By all the suits
And their well-paid alibis.
The loveliest women
Will spit in your eyes,
And the men I trust the most
Refuse to shave
And dress like rogues,
And my best friends
Are always broke
Looking for a lonely lady
With a nice room
And spare cash,
Never expecting joy to last.
Alright, you’re with Nicky
Holed up in a goddamned cave!
But does he read Baudelaire?
Does he lose his fingers in your hair?
Does he cry, lonely and drunk,
Holding the shoes you used to wear?
You’re not going to find
Another pirate like me,
Piss in the face of destiny
To merely touch your wrist!

It is destiny! !

I DREAMED that one had died in a strange place
Near no accustomed hand,
And they had nailed the boards above her face,
The peasants of that land,
Wondering to lay her in that solitude,
And raised above her mound
A cross they had made out of two bits of wood,
And planted cypress round;
And left her to the indifferent stars above
Until I carved these words:
i{She was more beautiful than thy first love,}
i{But now lies under boards.}

Yet if hope has flown away
In a night, or in a day,
In a vision, or in none,
Is it therefore the less gone?
All that we see or seem
Is but a dream within a dream

Cyprian, in my dream
the folds of a purple
kerchief shadowed
your cheeks --- the one
Timas one time sent,
a timid gift, all
the way from Phocaea
Sappho
tr. Barnard

My love in dream
I see you thee, hand in hand
strolling beside the silver sea
lying on sand glowing as gold
thou art I feel kneeling by my side
I prayed for sun not to rise
and night to stay a little while
on the glowing silvery night
to me once more thy foot steps tend
following together side by side
I plead with yearn to never end
for far and wide our feet have traveled
leaving the marks on my soul
asif, for dream is dream just lie and bold
to keep the grip on hope and hold

I awakened from a dream within a dream
Only to find that I hadn't gone to Rock n Roll Heaven
And that Rock n Roll Heaven had come down to earth

I was again beside thee in a dream:
Earth was so beautiful, the moon was shining;
The muffled voice of many a cataract stream
Came like a love-song, as, with arms entwining,
Our hearts were mixed in unison supreme.
The wind lay spell-bound in each pillared pine,
The tasselled larches had no sound or motion,
As my whole life was sinking into thine--
Sinking into a deep, unfathomed ocean
Of infinite love--uncircumscribed, divine.
Night held her breath, it seemed, with all her stars:
Eternal eyes that watched in mute compassion
Our little lives o'erleap their mortal bars,
Fused in the fulness of immortal passion,
A passion as immortal as the stars.
There was no longer any thee or me;
No sense of self, no wish or incompleteness
The moment, rounded to Eternity,
Annihilated time's destructive fleetness:
For all but love itself had ceased to be.

The deepest dream is of mad governors,
Down, down we feel it, till the very crust
Of the world cracks, and where there was no dust,
Atoms of ruin rise. Confusion stirs,
And fear; and all our thoughts--dark scavengers--
Feed on the center's refuse. Hope is thrust
Like wind away, and love sinks into lust
For merest safety, meanest of levelers.
And then we wake. Or do we? Sleep endures
More than the morning can, when shadows lie
Sharper than mountains, and the cleft is real
Between us and our kings. What sun assures
Our courage, and what evening by and by
Descends to rest us, and perhaps to heal?

All trembling in my arms Aminta lay,
Defending of the bliss I strove to take;
Raising my rapture by her kind delay,
Her force so charming was and weak.
The soft resistance did betray the grant,
While I pressed on the heaven of my desires;
Her rising breasts with nimbler motions pant;
Her dying eyes assume new fires.
Now to the height of languishment she grows,
And still her looks new charms put on;
– Now the last mystery of Love she knows,
We sigh, and kiss: I waked, and all was done.
`Twas but a dream, yet by my heart I knew,
Which still was panting, part of it was true:
Oh how I strove the rest to have believed;
Ashamed and angry to be undeceived!

Real as a dream
What shall I do with this great opportunity to fly?
What is the interpretation of this planet, this moon?
if I can dream that I dream / and dream anything dreamable / can I dream
I am awake / and why do that?
When I dream in a dream that I wake / up what
happens when I try to move?
I dream that I move
and the effort moves and moves
till I move / and my arm hurts
Then I wake up / dismayed / I was dreaming / I was waking
when I was dreaming still / just now.
and try to remember next time in dreams
that I am in dreaming.
And dream anything I want when I'm awaken.
When I'm in awakeness what do I desire?
I desire to fulfill my emotional belly.
My whole body my heart in my fingertops thrill with some old fulfillments.
Pages of celestial rhymes burning fire-words
unconsumable but disappear.
Arcane parchments my own and the universe the answer.
Belly to Belly and knee to knee.
The hot spurt of my body to thee and thee
old boy / dreamy Earl / you Prince of Paterson / now king of me / lost
Haledon
first dream that made me take down my pants
urgently to show the cars / auto tracks / rolling down avenue hill.
That far back what do I remember / but the face of the leader of the gang
was blond / that loved me / one day on the steps of his house blocks away
all afternoon I told him about my magic Spell
I can do anything I want / palaces millions / chemistry sets / chicken
coops / white horses
stables and torture basements / I inspect my naked victims
chained upside down / my fingertips thrill approval on their thighs
white hairless cheeks I may kiss all I want
at my mercy. on the racks.
I pass with my strong attendants / I am myself naked
bending down with my buttocks out
for their smacks of reproval / o the heat of desire
liek shit in my asshole. The strange gang
across the street / thru the grocerystore / in the wood alley / out in the open
on the corner
Because I lied to the Dentist about that chickencoop roofing / slate stolen off
his garage
by me and the boy I loved who would punish me if he knew
what I loved him.
That now I have had that boy back in another blond form
Peter Orlovsky a Chinese teenager in Bangkok ten years twenty years
Jo Army on the campus / white blond loins / my mouth hath kisses /
full of his cock / my ass burning / full of his cock
all that I do desire. In dream and awake
this handsome body mine / answered
all I desired / intimate loves / open eyed / revealed at last / clothes on the
floor
Underwear the most revealing stripped off below the belly button in bed.
That's that / yes yes / the flat cocks the red pricks the gentle public hair /
alone with me
my magic spell. My power / what I desire alone / what after thirty years /
I got forever / after thirty years / satisfied enough with Peter / with all I
wanted /
with many men I knew one generation / our sperm passing
into our mouths and bellies / beautiful when I love / given.
Now the dream oldens / I olden / my hair a year long / my thirtyeight
birthday approaching.
I dream I
am bald / am disappearing / the campus unrecognizable / Haledon Avenue
will be covered with neon / motels / Supermarkets / iron
the porches and woods changed when i go back / to see Earl again
He'll be bald / fleshy father / I could pursie him further in the garage
If there's still a garage on the hill / on the planet / when I get back.
From Asia.
If I could even remember his name or his face / or find him /
When I was ten / perhaps he exists in some form.
With a belly and a belt and an auto
Whatever his last name / I never knew / in the phonebook / the Akashic
records.
I'll write my Inspiration for all Mankind to remember,
My Idea, the secret cave / in the clothes closet / that house probably down /
Nothing to go back to / everything's gone / only my idea
that's disappearing / even in dreams / gray dust piles / instant annihilation
of World War II and all its stainless steel shining-mouthed cannons
much less me and my grammar school kisses / I never kissed in time /
and go on kissing in dream and out on the street / as if it were for ever.
No forever left! Even my oldest forever gone, in Bangkok, in Benares,
swept up with words and bodies / all into the brown Ganges /
passing the burning grounds and / into the police state.
My mind, my mind / you had six feet of Earth to hoe /
Why didn't you remember and plant the seed of Law and gather the sprouts
of What?
the golden blossoms of what idea? If I dream that I dream / what dream
should I dream next? Motorcycle rickshaws / parting lamp shine / little
taxis / horses hoofs
on this Saigon midnight street. Angkor Wat ahead and the ruined city's old
Hindu faces
and there was a dream about Eternity. What should I dream when I wake?
What's left to dream, more Chinese meat? More magic Spells? More youths
to love before I change & disappear?
More dream words? For now that I know that I am dreaming /
What next for you Allen? Run down to the Presidents Palace full of Morphine /
The cocks crowing / in the street / Dawn trucks / What is the question?
Do I need sleep, now that there's light in the window?
I'll go to sleep. Signing off until / the next idea / the moving van arrives
empty
at the Doctor's house full of Chinese furniture.

This is the story I was told – I’ve omitted
the details which might identify
and narrow down the nation,
the place, the family, the man…
It was in his teens, at school,
when the national leader arose
to bring the nation to its future,
its fulfilment, its destiny; so, like
his fellows, he joined the youth corps,
their eyes shining with ideals.
When the war inevitably came,
the time to show the world,
he was conscripted as a soldier.
He was not easy with this; killing for any noble cause
was not in his beliefs; he sought advice
in every holy book of every faith,
and knew within himself that he was right:
life is in the gift of the gods, and not of men.
One against the many, what could he do?
Should he commit suicide, there and then,
or its equivalent, disobey until he was shot,
unrecorded, unpublicised? That too,
he felt was wrong, life denied.
He decided to do just what he was told;
but at night, alone, to lay all this in prayer
at the feet of God; to sleep then and awake
with a conscience washed by that same God
who, it seemed, allowed wars just and unjust
for reasons which few men may unravel.
As war continued, this model soldier
rose within the ranks; and by an irony of fate
was chosen to be on the staff
of the death camps now being secretly set up.
How intense his prayer now became;
how testing was this time.
The details of this now are all known
(more than even those involved then knew) :
after the war, when the trials of war criminals
attempted human justice, some leaders
felt that suicide was the honourable death;
some lived in hope, were tried and hanged;
some committed to life imprisonment
to repent their life; or not.
For him (and some camp victims who survived
even spoke for him; ‘unyielding,
but never wantonly cruel’ said one)
and truth to tell, at that sorry time,
those not involved
sneered at ‘I was only obeying orders’, and
to his fellow countrymen, he was an uneasy figure
to represent their national conscience
-for him, the ten year sentence
was much the same as a (conscript's)   monastic cell;
adequate sustenance, housing, humble clothes,
and prayer.
Here the story told to me
breaks off; I cannot say
whether as a model prisoner
he won the admiration of his guards,
even the love; whether he wrote this down
and it was lost, or may one day make a book;
whether, if you met him, he would shine out
with love and truth and wisdom,
even saintliness; so that
you'd be proud to have met him; some say
that when he came out of prison, aged around 38,
he became a schoolteacher; some say, a priest;
others say, a doctor in a hospital..
I can only say, here was a good man;
and wonder how I would have behaved
had I been in his place; and whether,
as his life drew to a close,
he was even grateful in his soul
to have been so tested; and
to have known life whole.

Rises in the east,
sets in the west
cheers by friends,
denounces by the law
once who taste it,
never got rid of thee
try for my heart,
why it's so hard.
no songs that i could sing,
and they are came up with real things
drugs' like crap
never bring positive feedback
desire for a fabulous life,
but who has stolen my wife
tic tac,
tic tac
we shall go,
but where do we go?

Evil doers will tear love down,
spin love round and round,
like a whirlwind.
But hold onto the love,
if one knows it to be true.
Do not listen to the lies,
deception, or untruths.
And yet, there is some consolation,
there is some purpose to life.
There is the lovely destiny,
that's waiting on the other side.
It's full of love and truth,
shining brightly as a star.
But the only way to find it,
is to follow the strength,
and beauty of the heart.

While the red-stained mouths of machine guns ring
Across the infinite expanse of day;
While red or green, before their posturing King,
The massed battalions break and melt away;
And while a monstrous frenzy runs a course
That makes of a thousand men a smoking pile-
Poor fools! - dead, in summer, in the grass,
On Nature's breast, who meant these men to smile;
There is a God, who smiles upon us through
The gleam of gold, the incense-laden air,
Who drowses in a cloud of murmured prayer,
And only wakes when weeping mothers bow
Themselves in anguish, wrapped in old black shawls-
And their last small coin into his coffer falls.

A sense of evil lurking around
I lay broken on the ground
Forgotten in this place
That has no grace
A voice telling me
To go get that knife
Don’t put up a fight
Just commit suicide tonight
You’re already all alone
You are dying inside
So just make yourself bleed
Everyone will be pleased
When you are dead
They have no need for you
In this world
So go get that knife
Take it down your arm
Go down the vain
It is one way to kill yourself
With less pain
Please just do it
They want to find you
In a puddle of blood
On the ice cold floor
As you lay there dead
The evil still fallows me
I just sit there and listen
Taking it all in
But I can’t decide
What I should do
Get that knife
Or just sit and listen

And one of the elders of the city said, "Speak to us of Good and Evil."
And he answered:
Of the good in you I can speak, but not of the evil.
For what is evil but good tortured by its own hunger and thirst?
Verily when good is hungry it seeks food even in dark caves, and when it thirsts, it drinks even of dead waters.
You are good when you are one with yourself.
Yet when you are not one with yourself you are not evil.
For a divided house is not a den of thieves; it is only a divided house.
And a ship without rudder may wander aimlessly among perilous isles yet sink not to the bottom.
You are good when you strive to give of yourself.
Yet you are not evil when you seek gain for yourself.
For when you strive for gain you are but a root that clings to the earth and sucks at her breast.
Surely the fruit cannot say to the root, "Be like me, ripe and full and ever giving of your abundance."
For to the fruit giving is a need, as receiving is a need to the root.
You are good when you are fully awake in your speech,
Yet you are not evil when you sleep while your tongue staggers without purpose.
And even stumbling speech may strengthen a weak tongue.
You are good when you walk to your goal firmly and with bold steps.
Yet you are not evil when you go thither limping.
Even those who limp go not backward.
But you who are strong and swift, see that you do not limp before the lame, deeming it kindness.
You are good in countless ways, and you are not evil when you are not good,
You are only loitering and sluggard.
Pity that the stags cannot teach swiftness to the turtles.
In your longing for your giant self lies your goodness: and that longing is in all of you.
But in some of you that longing is a torrent rushing with might to the sea, carrying the secrets of the hillsides and the songs of the forest.
And in others it is a flat stream that loses itself in angles and bends and lingers before it reaches the shore.
But let not him who longs much say to him who longs little, "Wherefore are you slow and halting?"
For the truly good ask not the naked, "Where is your garment?" nor the houseless, "What has befallen your house?"

your hands of evil,
your touches of sin,
only i,
know where you've been,
touch me again,
and i will knock you down,
and you will lay there,
till by god your found...
You screwed up my life,
the minute your hand touched my leg,
i asked you to stop,
i practicalley begged,
but it wasn't enough,
you just wanted more,
so you grabbed me tight,
and threw me on the floor...
Are you glad for what you did?
are you proud of what you've done?
Do you know that what you've done,
now cannot be undone?
so burn in hell,
cos that's where you belong,
for your hands of evil,
are absolutely WRONG! ! ! ! !

An evil spirit, your beauty haunts me still,
Wherewith, alas, I have been long possest,
Which ceaseth not to tempt me to each ill,
Nor gives me once but one poor minute's rest;
In me it speaks, whether I sleep or wake,
And when by means to drive it out I try,
With greater torments then it me doth take,
And tortures me in most extremity;
Before my face it lays down my despairs,
And hastes me on unto a sudden death,
Now tempting me to drown myself in tears,
And then in sighing to give up my breath.
Thus am I still provok'd to every evil
By this good wicked spirit, sweet angel-devil.

This is the sorrowful story
Told when the twilight fails
And the monkeys walk together
Holding their neighbours' tails: --
"Our fathers lived in the forest,
Foolish people were they,
They went down to the cornland
To teach the farmers to play.
"Our fathers frisked in the millet,
Our fathers skipped in the wheat,
Our fathers hung from the branches,
Our fathers danced in the street.
"Then came the terrible farmers,
Nothing of play they knew,
Only. . .they caught our fathers
And set them to labour too!
"Set them to work in the cornland
With ploughs and sickles and flails,
Put them in mud-walled prisons
And -- cut off their beautiful tails!
"Now, we can watch our fathers,
Sullen and bowed and old,
Stooping over the millet,
Sharing the silly mould,
"Driving a foolish furrow,
Mending a muddy yoke,
Sleeping in mud-walled prisons,
Steeping their food in smoke.
"We may not speak to our fathers,
For if the farmers knew
They would come up to the forest
And set us to labour too."
This is the horrible story
Told as the twilight fails
And the monkeys walk together
Holding their kinsmen's tails.
II
'Twas when the rain fell steady an' the Ark was pitched an' ready,
That Noah got his orders for to take the bastes below;
He dragged them all together by the horn an' hide an' feather,
An' all excipt the Donkey was agreeable to go.
Thin Noah spoke him fairly, thin talked to him sevarely,
An' thin he cursed him squarely to the glory av the Lord: --
"Divil take the ass that bred you, and the greater ass that fed you --
Divil go wid you, ye spalpeen!" an' the Donkey went aboard.
But the wind was always failin', an' 'twas most onaisy sailin',
An' the ladies in the cabin couldn't stand the stable air;
An' the bastes betwuxt the hatches, they tuk an' died in batches,
Till Noah said: -- "There's wan av us that hasn't paid his fare!"
For he heard a flusteration 'mid the bastes av all creation --
The trumpetin' av elephints an' bellowin' av whales;
An' he saw forninst the windy whin he wint to stop the shindy
The Divil wid a stable-fork bedivillin' their tails.
The Divil cursed outrageous, but Noah said umbrageous: --
"To what am I indebted for this tenant-right invasion?"
An' the Divil gave for answer: -- "Evict me if you can, sir,
For I came in wid the Donkey -- on Your Honour's invitation."

Incandescent moonlit evening light
A walk along a distant road
That leads where no one has described
Some have been there and tell me so
But in going they cannot say
What they saw when they went that way.
Incandescent moonlit evening light
A walk that’s leaving bright lights of
All that’s known behind
And not knowing what will be found
Walking alone not in a crowd
Along a distant road as if in a shroud.
Incandescent moonlit evening light
I know not what is out of sight
They say that once this road is travelled right
With no more journeys will I be troubled
Freely marching as to death
But only death of all that has been left.
Incandescent moonlit evening light
Will I arrive this very night
Will I surrender all I own
Am I ready, can I atone
With all this universe and most of all
With all my actions since my first birth?
Incandescent moonlit evening light
They call me back
Thoughts binding tight
I walk on simply letting go
If I arrive
Who will ever know?

I cannot tell if God exist
But I believe God does
I cannot say God is this or that
But I feel Gods presence
I cannot prove what I believe
But I cannot disprove God
My religion taught me
About God who is a loving father
But some say God is like a mother
Few even claim I am a dreamer
For someone beyond truth and reality
Creation of reason for beauty
But what can I say
Deep in my heart God I see
Even if formless like nothingness
Yet day and night feel my senses
Too near yet so far I know it
But my friend to God I only trust
(Cebu City, Philippines 2004)

915
Faith—is the Pierless Bridge
Supporting what We see
Unto the Scene that We do not—
Too slender for the eye
It bears the Soul as bold
As it were rocked in Steel
With Arms of Steel at either side—
It joins—behind the Veil
To what, could We presume
The Bridge would cease to be
To Our far, vacillating Feet
A first Necessity.

'Faith' is a fine invention
When Gentlemen can see—
But Microscopes are prudent
In an Emergency.

Since all that is was ever bound to be;
Since grim, eternal laws our Being bind;
And both the riddle and the answer find,
And both the carnage and the calm decree;
Since plain within the Book of Destiny
Is written all the journey of mankind
Inexorably to the end; since blind
And mortal puppets playing parts are we:
Then let's have faith; good cometh out of ill;
The power that shaped the strife shall end the strife;
Then let's bow down before the Unknown Will;
Fight on, believing all is well with life;
Seeing within the worst of War's red rage
The gleam, the glory of the Golden Age.

497
He strained my faith—
Did he find it supple?
Shook my strong trust—
Did it then—yield?
Hurled my belief—
But—did he shatter—it?
Racked—with suspense—
Not a nerve failed!
Wrung me—with Anguish—
But I never doubted him—
'Tho' for what wrong
He did never say—
Stabbed—while I sued
His sweet forgiveness—
Jesus—it's your little "John"!
Don't you know—me?

We live tomorrow
the dreams of today
Our hopes of the future
gives us faith along the way
Love is the river
of this wakened state
Its never out of time
its never too late
It gives us life
as it flows through our lives
It tears through confusion
loneliness and strife
Love cuts a clear path
through the test of time
You can see where it has been
and watch it unwind
Free as a river
that you can't control
You can't even say
where it might flow
Hope is a power
that cant be taken away
It can pull you through
even the toughest of days
Hope can keep you going
when everything else fails
It keeps you company
on the loneliest of trails
Faith is ever daring
in the face of defeat
It can bring you courage
that nothing can beat
Faith is never doubting
in yourself or your beliefs
Holding on to what you know
when content is just a dream
Faith can give you strength
to face what the future brings
Combined with hope and love
you only need the three of these
Love is like a River
Hope is like a dream
Faith is just believing
with nothing to be seen
So dream of tomorrow
and Love for today
Hope with all your heart
Let Faith show you the way

A man with faith can win the world with ease;
A war is won with faith in its soldiers;
A leader with faith brings about world’s peace;
A faithless man always has unknown fears.
Strong faith can heal an adamant disease;
Faith in oneself makes one self-confident;
Faith in religion and God gives mind’s peace;
Faith alters in our favor, an event.
Faith is needed to maintain good friendship;
You ought to have faith in a stranger too;
Faith in the captain brings to harbor ship;
Faith is needed even to win a coup!
Have faith in the man for earthly things done;
Have faith in God for Heavenly grace won.

A blue jay poses on a stake
meant to support an apple tree
newly planted. A strong wind
on this clear cold morning
barely ruffles his tail feathers.
When he turns his attention
toward me, I face his eyes
without blinking. A week ago
my wife called me to come see
this same bird chase a rat
into the thick leaves
of an orange tree. We came as
close as we could and watched
the rat dig his way into an orange,
claws working meticulously.
Then he feasted, face deep
into the meal, and afterwards
washed himself in juice, paws
scrubbing soberly. Surprised
by the whiteness of the belly,
how open it was and vulnerable,
I suggested I fetch my .22.
She said, "Do you want to kill him?"
I didn't. There are oranges
enough for him, the jays, and us,
across the fence in the yard
next door oranges rotting
on the ground. There is power
in the name rat, a horror
that may be private. When I
was a boy and heir to tales
of savagery, of sleeping men
and kids eaten half away before
they could wake, I came to know
that horror. I was afraid
that left alive the animal
would invade my sleep, grown
immense now and powerful
with the need to eat flesh.
I was wrong. Night after night
I wake from dreams of a city
like no other, the bright city
of beauty I thought I'd lost
when I lost my faith that one day
we would come into our lives.
The wind gusts and calms
shaking this miniature budding
apple tree that in three months
has taken to the hard clay
of our front yard. In one hop
the jay turns his back on me,
dips as though about to drink
the air itself, and flies.

Once more we talk about it.
How sad it's all become.
No matter how we look at it
this family is not one.
They say it shouldn't matter.
Who needs them after all?
But, please explain the pain I feel
even though I've got it all.
I see my pain and emptiness
like a hollowed out old tree...
It may seem to be standing tall
but, it's empty just like me.
There's such a contradiction
to my entire life.
I'm happy and fulfilled
being a mother and a wife.
What about 'a sister'
and 'a daughter'...how about that?
These are roles I was born to play.
Why can't I? Tell me that.
A family divided
that's what we've grown to be.
I've got mine and you've got yours
but we have no family tree.

To all my family and friends,
I'm happy to say, this is the end.
I've been contemplating death for a while.
Stressed out, as all these problems pile.
I need more help than I can get.
A year in therapy, no improvement yet.
Scarred for life and full of pain.
Unable to clean this everlasting stain.
No one but me knows the whole truth.
Of all the awful things of my youth.
I lie to myself all the time.
Pretending I'm happy and my life is sublime.
Everything is out of control.
I'm tired and worn, my body has taken its toll.
My conscience and morals seem to fade,
As I did the bad things my parents forbade.
I'm tired of making the same mistakes.
I'm tired of all the liars and fakes.
I just want to be gone and disapear.
Living another day is my only fear.
So with this in thought I will take the knife.
Find a vein and end my life.

Have u ever thought actually
What it would be like, without a family.
Family is the only one,
Where one experiences best of fun.
Family is an elegant necklace,
Whose bond may appear broken
But deep inside, their hearts are still one.
When the unwanted sorrows seem longer than a mile,
Your dear old family makes you smile.
When because of a mistake no event
Works out for your sake.
When life refuses to mend
There comes a sharp bend,
Family gives necessary amends,
To the family all worries can be sent.
In a fraction of time,
Your sorrows will leave
It may sound absurd
But you’ve got to believe.
Wherever you may be,
You belong to the pack.
And to them you can always go back.

When we talk of family,
it’s not always about our blood kin.
Sometimes it’s about a group of friends
whom have become more family
than the real ones we have.
They are there with comfort
whenever tragedy strikes
with a kind of love
that wraps around you
and comforts your troubled soul.
You gather your family close to you,
so whenever sadness comes along
you will know you will have
someone to call upon.
10 July 2008

the house is almost full,
the rooms abound with chatter,
little feet are pattering away
finally, the time that does matter,
fervently with every breath of mine,
I bow my head and pray,
my cup of happiness is full to the brim,
such togetheness comes once in a way,
my loved ones are here with me
to partake of  your bestowed grace,
happiness shows in every pair of eyes
laughter lights up every face,
mealtimes are a blessing of yours,
I thank thee for the food on our plate
the walls of my house, so cemented with love,
may the joyousness never abate,
soon the days will fly past
and each will return to their home, so far,
but nothing will dim the happiness of these memories,
nothing can be at par.....
happy times are what life is all about,
memories are there to stay,
memories of these times light up our eyes
when the children are far away,
love is what makes the world go around
love of each, for the other
love of a husband, a wife or a son,
love of  a sister or a brother,
I thank You Lord for this joyous reunion,
yet another blessing  of yours, a fine gift
may my family always be united,
may there never be friction or any rift.
enclose us all in your blessings,
enfold us warmly in your embrace,
keep my family happy and healthy
keep a smile on every face.....

Honor thy family
For doing
The things
Your family
Does
For
you
Children

My new family I am starting to build
This is the biggest opportunity  for me
I don’t want to die alone
I have seem too much loneliness
And too much sadness in my life
I had gone through it all alone
Not even the evil force can destroy me anymore
My new family soon I will have
I can say that now I am the luckiest woman in the world
Happiness found my way
And it is here to stay
I can’t wait for this moment to arrive that I will have my new family
That I can call my own
I hope my new family will be united
And that I can really love than more
I hope I can be closer and united with my new family
I won’t be lonely anymore
Because my new family will be here soon
And life without a new family is devastating to me
So when this happen I will put together a photo album of my new family
For every one to share

He is a hero
not by sibling ordinal age,
nor by fate.
He did not choose
whatever he became.
You see . . . his father drank himself
out of fortune, family, and prestige,
right into the nothingness
of the streets.
Cold and motionless,
without anyone
to claim what remained,
a city dump truck
took him to the grave.
Not just any power greater than he
but The Lord alone,
led the hero to success
and . . . away from alcohol.

O lesson well and wisely taught
Stay with me to the last,
That all my life may better be
For the trial that is past.
O vanity, mislead no more!
Sleep, like passions, long!
Wake, happy heart, and dance again
To the music of my song!
O summer days, flit fast away,
And bring the blithesome hour
When we three wanderers shall meet
Safe in our household flower!
O dear mamma, lament no more!
Smile on us as we come,
Your grief has been our punishment,
Your love has led us home.

Dear Lord in heaven, this has been a very interesting week, still so much to learn and so much to be forgiven for.  Although Lord verbally we have not offended anyone but inwardly sometimes we have feelings of jealousy or envy.  These feelings truly are negative feelings and need to be dealt with.  Today Lord I pray that you rid our minds of such thoughts and replace those thoughts with grateful thoughts.  Show us how to look at things in a different light, to see what is important and not to focus on the material things in life but to realize that we were all given gifts and those gifts are to be treasured, respected and shared with others.
Father when others copy us, let us realize that this is a compliment, which shows that we  have the ability to set the trend, to take the lead and to move forward allowing others to follow and create a much brighter environment.
Father when others speak badly of us because they are feeling jealous of us, teach us not to react in a negative manner but to continue to hold on to the positive not allowing such words to hurt us.  Hold our hands a little tighter Lord.
Father, teach us to be humble and to always put you first, always have you at the head of our tables, present in our midst, clear in our thoughts, forever under your umbrella and Lord teach us to always listen to the whispers.
I thank you Father for all that you have done for me and I share this prayer with my brothers and sisters on poemhunter in the hope that they will find something here that may be of help to them.
I ask you Lord for forgiveness, I ask you to keep us out of harms way, I ask that you continue to walk with us, stand by us and to carry us when we can no longer walk.
Lord in the name of your son Jesus, I thank you, I love you, I respect you, I know you and I will always worship you.
Amen

He’d grown quite tired by then, but still he tried
To appease or even please that ghost whose voice
Pursued him, critical of every move—
Pursued him easily, relentlessly;
A spectral helicopter hovering high
Above him, searchlight showering him in white,
As, trapped inside its shifting spot, he ran,
The voice reverberating in his ears.
But worse, it knew exactly what to say
To sink his heart and overthrow his mind
With crippling catalogues of ridicule.
And so he wrote…in hopes of being healed…and,
Stirred by family stories of one other,
Who threw this hammer—this one—at the mother.
He learned one more detail about that other:
He’d died too early but not soon enough,
And now lies silent in an unmarked grave—
Because the voice refused him any stone.
And so he wrote, and so the voice kept on;
Its arbitrary taunting would not yield,
And written words stacked high could not abate
This feeling that he’d never quite succeed.
He tried to have an understanding ear,
To listen for the mind behind the voice;
To call a truce; to show some sympathy;
To cry for one who gave what he received.
But Sympathy refused these mourning clothes,
And smiling, firmly forced the coffin closed.

I realized today
that winter would
not exist without
you, Father.
In a world where death
is confused with life,
your breath crystallizes
fear into snow.
Mounds and piles of snow.
Only when your breath
stops
will this snow ever cease.

Life has many ways, of telling our age
Each more interesting, with each new page
But in my heart, you will never grow old
Dear Father of mine, with many stories to be told
With patience and love, you guided me
Bringing me up, the best I could be
You worked hard and long, even after I was grown
Thank you dear Father, for the love you have shown
So much to be learned, from your experience
All you went through, all your endurance
I will always treasure, what you have done
Dear Father of mine, you're number one
So often this child, has failed to say
How much you're loved, each passing day
And I thank God, He picked you to be
The Greatest Father, ever for me

He wept for his father
His father who implored
him to not test life, to not
seek treasures unknown
But his son wanted more
and spent his long days
slashing the darkened skies
in conquest of a golden sun
But the son was like a god
opening his mouth to
warm the coldness of the earth
And his father did not bless
the Summers or Winters
of his son with the light
of his departure
The father turned his head
away, his once strong grip,
weakend, only the whitened
hollows of his face did he leave him.

Ulcerated tooth keeps me awake, there is
such pain, would have to go to the hospital to have
it pulled or would bleed to death from the blood thinners,
but can't leave Mother, she falls and forgets her salve
and her tranquilizers, her ankles swell so and her bowels
are so bad, she almost had a stoppage and sometimes
what she passes is green as grass.There are big holes
in my thigh where my leg brace buckles the size of dimes.
My head pounds from the high pressure.It is awful
not to be able to get out, and I fell in the bathroom
and the girl could hardly get me up at all.
Sure thought my back was broken, it will be next time.
Prostate is bad and heart has given out,
feel bloated after supper. Have made my peace
because am just plain done for and have no doubt
that the Lord will come any day with my release.
You say you enjoy your feeder, I don't see why
you want to spend good money on grain for birds
and you say you have a hundred sparrows, I'd buy
poison and get rid of their diseases and turds.

How he loved the sound
of sound itself, when he
was young enought to be
wild with love, when his
blood  boiled with desire
and crashed in great breaking
waves against his heart.
Now, the faceless dark god
of the pagan masses proclaims
'Noise is power! '
The sky seems crazy
with the din and holler
of monster trucks and boom boxes.
'This is a good day to become
like stone, ' Father tells himself.
In a world sick with noise,
to be deaf is to be blessed.
Nobody makes good sound anymore.

He never loved me,
though I know how hard he tried.
He was a good man,
sewn tight with pride.
On visits in his final years he cried
Standing at his graveside
able at last to say
I know
you knew
how much I loved you
anyway.

545
'Tis One by One — the Father counts —
And then a Tract between
Set Cypherless — to teach the Eye
The Value of its Ten —
Until the peevish Student
Acquire the Quick of Skill —
Then Numerals are dowered back —
Adorning all the Rule —
'Tis mostly Slate and Pencil —
And Darkness on the School
Distracts the Children's fingers —
Still the Eternal Rule
Regards least Cypherer alike
With Leader of the Band —
And every separate Urchin's Sum —
Is fashioned for his hand —

Adolescent fear never speaks in its own language
Always translated into the impure tongue
Of cocky
Mock confidence
Mutating into
Terrifying others
But not me
Each morning resolute to spread a little knowledge
Inspire a little, fighting another tide
Which is pulling them
Each morning they arrive resolute to fit in
Look cool
Be popular
Stay safe
A handy tool
Is mock the teacher
Show no interest
In the offerings
Of knowledge
And inspiration
Let battle of two tides commence

Too oft in time
it seems a crime
to open up one's heart.
Comes into play
that which  we fear,
from which we run away:
the fear that love will soon depart
& all abandon'd shall we be:
alone forevermore, drowning in a sea
of pain, remorse & self-pity.
So heed me well! Listen here.
Love comes not with a guarantee.
My friend, 'tis gamble all or none!
But if your fears do keep you safe,
you'll miss out on all the joy & fun
that risk & love alone can bring.
So take a chance!
Don't be a waif.
Let your heart dance
& spirit sing.
Love now, love more today!
(Copyright 11/27/2005)

Everyone has a fear
They don’t even know where it comes from
Fear is everywhere you don’t have to look
There are fears that scare little kids
Like the dark or the monster in the closet
But without fear the world would fall into darkness
There are some people that fear other people
And some that fear water
But a lot of people fear the end of the world
There are people that do not have any fear
They are the people that are different
Even if they hide their fears from humanity
I am someone that is different
But I will tell you my fear
And that is
The fear of my friends dying first
I could not live with out my friends
A man once told me that fear is away to run
Show no fear even in the eyes of the end
Fear is everywhere you look
I told you my fear
I think that you have a fear too
But if you dare to tell
That is your choose
I do not control you
I have said that fear is everywhere you look
What is your worst fear? ? ?
I will not judge you if you tell! ! !

People choose to see what
they want in me
wanting to be my friend
seeking the knoweldge I
hold within from what
I have learned in school
and outside of school
Never really touching
what I am made up of on the inside
but if they ask, I tell them some
but nothing to deep
for I feel once they know
who I am on the inside
they will no longer be my friend
For they always want
people to know them inside and out
For me it takes either along time
or a very strong  conection between
me and that person
before I let them know
my deepest darkest secrets
that lay deep beneath my skin
with the hope that they will
still be my friend

I fear the vast dimensions of eternity.
I fear the gap between the platform and the train.
I fear the onset of a murderous campaign.
1 fear the palpitations caused by too much tea.
I fear the drawn pistol of a rapparee.
I fear the books will not survive the acid rain.
I fear the ruler and the blackboard and the cane.
I fear the Jabberwock, whatever it might be.
I fear the bad decisions of a referee.
I fear the only recourse is to plead insane.
I fear the implications of a lawyer's fee.
I fear the gremlins that have colonized my brain.
I fear to read the small print of the guarantee.
And what else do I fear? Let me begin again.

Do you see the window,
.....underneath the tree?
Do you see the sunshine
.....floating on the sea?
Do you feel the laughter
.....over at the bar?
Do you feel the pain
.....of the rusting car?
Do you understand the world?
.....Ask if you are real.
Do you understand our time?
.....Can you even feel.
Do you know the answers?
.....There are no questions here.
Do you know why we hate?
There exists inside us fear.

i do not fear....
Armagadden, not the end,
not soldiers wearing masks,
not the plague, not nuclear disaster....
not prisons, not persecution,
not being labeled or hated.
not losing it all,
not guns, not drugs, nor
one world order.....
but i do fear....
not living all that i can live,
not giving all that i can give,
not matching beliefs with action,
not seeing all people as people,
not doing what i know is right....
not standing when i should stand,
not saying what i should say....
not writing the words i'm given....

fear may scare you
fear may hurt you
but whatever you do
don't fear fear

Fear is not what I am afraid of.
True, it is a frightful thing to fear;
But the fear of fearing fear is overwhelming
Especially when its form becomes sheer
Fear is like losing a tree of shade on a bristling day
Or losing your breath when you fall below the sea;
I fear this fear of fearing these fears
And it is this fear that is part and parcel of me.
Fear is like loving without being loved back,
Fear is like leaving without being left;
And the fear of loving and leaving and being loved and being left
Is opposed by the fear of not fearing anything
And being an empty vase, noisy and bereft
I fear not death nor do I fear life,
But I fear the fear of both as my peers;
If I could release one fear from my fears
It would be the fear of fearing these fears.

It was so fulminating.
A fire burned within
from spindly kindling
and a breath of air
it sprang to life
consuming obstacles
and dull objections
and stark conventions.
Iit jumped all gaps
yet was not seen
by those who could
and bravely would
rise in defence
in bold offence.
So unexpected,
not wished for even,
it took on quickly
and without mercy
a life of egotistic
and autonomic
well, somewhat comic
and drooling presence.
So unprepared
so stunned and scared
yet breathing in
this deadly fragrance
and longing for
the nectar of
a soul ordained
for me alone
and nought is left
to say or do
we were as such
simply because
we had to be
it was a law
of nature
one which can not
be broken
by mere humans.
A fire burns
so cleanly when
the darkness
of our doubts
is absent.
And as I float
in saddened waves
of smoke and seek
those mirrors
which could give,
perhaps be saviours
for answers
from my soul
and heart
my tortured mind
does not perceive
what she must know,
perhaps relieved
and rescued in
the nick of love
from devastation.
I miss you so
my heartease flower
but hope you will
not hear those words
or feel the heat
or smell the smoke.
And if you see
a distant fire
be not alarmed
the smoke has gone.

Our Sun beats down, its rays so strong,
It heats this earth, where we belong,
Ripening to gold the waving corn,
Rising up high to start the morn.
Its sunshine pleasures all it greets,
And brightens so, our darkest streets.
With warmth it transforms a frosty day,
And bright beams sweep the gloom away.
Oh, ball of fire, shine radiant for me,
And all your famed glory, let me see.
©   Ernestine Northover

We come into this world with nothing and we depart with nothing. You departed with nothing. Yet you took everything.
There was something omnious about that night, something gloomy, something fateful. Maybe it was the wind and the rain. Maybe just a feeling. I suppose a fitting night to leave this world as we all eventually must. With nothing. Our final flight wont be delayed.
Why you had to leave I do not know. I do not understand. Maybe it is not for me to know, not for me to understand.
You where fire. I was ice. You melted me. I soothed you.
Alas, a burning soul will always leave this world in flames, as was your fate. Myself?  I returned to my cold home in the north where ice belongs, with nothing.
Nothing.

I am the creator who cannot find
The soul in which I burn
A witch of fire, frozen in ice
Freedom is a flight I yearn
Cold and numb, asleep
Yet my eyes are open wide
A cast of iron prison through which
My inner light resides
I yearn to be awakened.
My fire to melt this icy brocade
I yearn for reckless oblivion
My facade has been self-made
A river made of loneliness
My soul has been branded numb
A leave from absolute sadness
I seek the blue-eyed one

This life that we call our own
Is neither strong nor free;
A flame in the wind of death,
It trembles ceaselessly.
And this all we can do
To use our little light
Before, in the piercing wind,
It flickers into night:
To yield the heat of the flame,
To grudge not, but to give
Whatever we have of strength,
That one more flame may live.

My love is like to ice, and I to fire:
How comes it then that this her cold so great
Is not dissolved through my so hot desire,
But harder grows the more I her entreat?
Or how comes it that my exceeding heat
Is not allayed by her heart-frozen cold,
But that I burn much more in boiling sweat,
And feel my flames augmented manifold?
What more miraculous thing may be told,
That fire, which all things melts, should harden ice,
And ice, which is congeal'd with senseless cold,
Should kindle fire by wonderful device?
Such is the power of love in gentle mind,
That it can alter all the course of kind.

Sitting by the fire,
Warming up my toes,
Last year is over,
But a new year has come
Packed with lots of things,
Sleeping at night,
Staring up at the ceiling.
Waking up at the morning
Streching my armes out wide,
It's so nice waking up to a new day.
Lots of adventures on their way! ! !

Fire never dies, just smoulders,
like love you need to fan it,
to keep the flame alive.
Like the smouldering embers,
that needs only a little attention,
to become a flame again.
So the parting lovers,
need only to kiss to ignite the flame,
and start the passion again.

638
To my small Hearth His fire came—
And all my House aglow
Did fan and rock, with sudden light—
'Twas Sunrise—'twas the Sky—
Impanelled from no Summer brief—
With limit of Decay—
'Twas Noon—without the News of Night—
Nay, Nature, it was Day—

Meals are the food for the body;
Knowledge is the food for the mind;
Meditation is the food for the spirit;
Music is the food for the love of heart;
Dreams are the food for the consciousness;
Prayer is the food for the Almighty;
Love is the food for the living heart;
Thoughts are the food for the brain;
Colourful ink is the food for the pen;
Ideas are the food for the stories;
Truth is the food for the will;
Sun’s energy is the food for the plants;
Plants are the food for the living beings;
But one man’s food is another man’s poison!

Fame is a fickle food
Upon a shifting plate
Whose table once a
Guest but not
The second time is set.
Whose crumbs the crows inspect
And with ironic caw
Flap past it to the Farmer's Corn--
Men eat of it and die.

I am off camera
She is a prisoner – stewing
That a device for her feeding
Is not being properly administered
It is two feet wide by a yard long
Open at its rectangular end
Of seemingly tubular like iron construction
I do not truly understand the rant
A dream
The only thing that beats the internet in defeating time and space.

The sky has darkened before its time:
a swarm of locusts,
not a thunder-storm.
To protect my tender crops
I build foolish fires,
burning everything handy.
The smoke drives some away,
kills some.  The rest descend.
Hosts of them camp in my head.
Frenzied, I run about,
stamping the earth with bare heels.
I shout, clapping bits of tin
to distract the devouring.
When there is a famine within
we shan't go completely hungry:
we'll heap all the dead words
and cook them.  It is said
they are delicious with rice and lentils.
[From The Used Book]

Starvation is an intolerable state
of existence. However, I would rather
hunger for food, then wither away
from an absence of love.
© Joe Fazio

still in old Italy
20 million tones
spoils to market
more money paid
waste paid collected
paid in dump charges
can we not do better?
can we stop criminal waste?
can we end global hunger?
food waste to market
not just an Italian problem
crime waste a global problem?

What an offensive brain
Tasking with junking the kids
Packed with deceiving zesty spices
Coated colourful with fattened salt and sugar..
Devoured the kids
In high spirits the packs romp and rollick
Eaten children lethargic
Resort to be hyped
Only junked in the packs hooked
Unaware of the sick-riding ghosts hidden

(This is a fictional poem)
You keep sending your food back because you aren't satisfied.
If you send it back just once more, we are going to step outside.
You say that my food stinks but you don't realize that I'm a great chef.
My meals have caused food poisoning but they've caused no deaths.
You said that your bacon was burned and your eggs were runny.
I'm going to kick you in the crotch and you won't think it's funny.
You keep complaining about your meals, nobody likes a whiner.
You say that I cook worse than that chef who owned Mel's diner.
I'm getting pissed because of the meals that you return.
I hold the worlds record for food that causes heartburn.

Leaping, leaping, leaping,
down line by line,
growling at the cadavers,
filling the holy jugs with their piss,
falling into windows and mauling the parents,
but soft, kiss-soft,
and sobbing sobbing
into their awful dog dish.
No point? No twist for you
in my white tunnel?
Let me speak plainly,
let me whisper it from the podium-
Mother, may I use your pseudonym?
May I take the dove named Mary
and shove out Anne?
May I take my check book, my holographs,
my eight naked books,
and sign it Mary, Mary, Mary
full of grace?
I know my name is not offensive
but my feet hang in the noose.
I want to be white.
I want to be blue.
I want to be a bee digging into an onion heart,
as you did to me, dug and squatted
long after death and its fang.
Hail Mary, full of me,
Nibbling in the sitting room of my head.
Mary, Mary, virgin forever,
whore forever,
give me your name,
give me your mirror.
Boils fester in my soul,
so give me your name so I may kiss them,
and they will fly off,
nameless
but named,
and they will fly off like angel food dogs
with thee
and with thy spirit.
Let me climb the face of my kitchen dog
and fly off into my terrified years.

He was undersized
compared to his peers
He waited for his chance
to catch the toss
He ran the final points
that cinched the win
Cheers and accolades
swirled all around
The spectators stood tall
and high-fived
He took it all in stride
smiling shyly
It was his only touchdown
of the season
He was a modest
one-time football hero
2/2/08

Have you seen a football match?
In a field two goal-keepers' catch.
What do they catch and for why?
They catch ball for non-goal, bye.
Have you watched dance in ground?
Make cheerful players spend pound.
In round dancers come, dance enjoy,
Football world cup fills all with joy.
It takes place among two teams,
Team has eleven players' beams.
Around the field players do stand,
Goal posts are two each side bland.
A referee is there, makes them play,
He blows whistle when finds a clay.
Player to player does pass the ball,
Co-operations vanish atrocities all.
Players run referee does dance, act
Ball dances in sky and ground fact.
Spectators dance and run in cheer,
They say hip- hip hurray in a gear.
Scorer scores the ball for a goal,
Certain aim and effort reach to goal.
Hard labour doesn't go in vain,
Laborious parties win and gain.
Spectators cheer and enjoy the game,
They get affection, fraternity and fame.
Love, nonviolence develop among them,
Players maintain health in this game.

Football is a contact sport;
In short—a “rough” game.
It may leave you dancing,
Or it could leave you lame.
Armed with helmets, jerseys
And spandex tights—
All tough dudes,
Ready for the fight.
Digging in with spiked shoes,
And war paint on their face.
Staring down the adversary—
No mercy and no grace.
Tackles, hits and yard runs.
The scoring of “touchdowns, ”
With each team striving
For the coveted crown.
Whether dancing, banged or lame—
‘Tis the nature of the game.
And that’s okay with football fans,
They love it just the same.

With Apologies to Oliver Twist and everybody else.
Football, glorious football.
Don't care what it looks like -.
Burned! Underdone! Crude!
Don't care what those crooks like.
Just thinking of growing fat.-
Our senses go reeling.
One moment of knowing that
Full-up feeling from sitting on
the couch!
Football, glorious football!
What wouldn't we give for
That extra bit more,
that's all that we should live for.
Why should we be fated
to do nothing but brood
on football,
magical football,
wonderful football,
marvelous football,
fabulous football,
beautiful football,
glorious football!

After stepping into the field
there is no way out
even before you start the game
you hear the fans shout
The players then sings their anthem
its football......
the most beautiful game.....
And when the whistle blows
the crowd starts their roar
in the 90 tensed minutes
the players got to score
Football is friendly only in name
because friendliness is not meant for football....
the most beautiful game....
So when the hard tackles go in
and injured fellow goes out
the crowd becomes furious
and starts to shout
Even after breaking one's leg
there seems to be no shame
because its football....
the most beautiful game....

In a pub all the channels were on football
But there was a guy with no interest at all
He was asked; who’s winning?
He replied; dunno who’s playing?
He only knew when his beer was due for a call

Net to net rolls the ball
with the feet fast they scroll
the kicks find the bar too small
too hard to score a goal!
Sweats it out the forward
saves it tough the one at back
like a fort he must guard
not allow a crack!
On the grass no guide or map
rely on footwork skill
pierce the defense find the gap
go for the lethal kill!
The ball if once finds the net
stop breath a million soul
mourns the side in sealed fate
the air is rend with GOAL! ! ! !

The beauty of the golden days,
Where the great adventure began,
On a field where we all sang,
Sang cheerfully with our fans,
We were head on head,
We had a solid back,
A positioned middle
And a stronger front,
The score was one all,
The previous goals were jokes,
They were just shots without effect,
Hits without desire
We try scoring but fail,
They attack we defend,
We push hard but regret it at the end,
The match was too even that it couldn't be decided,
A substitution occurred,
Leaving us in shock,
Leaving us blank minded,
Leaving us distracted with our thoughts,
It seemed like nothing mattered anymore,
We are champions now forever more,
Not a single soul would be able to take it from us,
But oh how I was wrong about that,

We all love and applaud the winners
As we feel sorry for the losers
We love women, without them, we're nobody
Women are the fruits and the gems of our society
Whoopee! Congratulations to the USA Women's Soccer Team
For winning their fourth World Cup. This is a dream
For everybody to be champions
This is an outstanding accomplishment
Let's all enjoy this wonderful moment
Hurrah! Yippee! These women are heroes of actions
We are proud of them. They deserve at least equal pay
For equal work. I pray that nothing stands in their way
Thank you for the great soccer/football skills
That you have shown throughout the tournament
In France.Your ladies are lovely, winsome and elegant
You inspire me and give me enough energies and chills
To never give up, to work hard or to strive to succeed
May God grant all good health to survive and to lead!
Copyright © July 2019, Hébert Logerie, All rights reserved
Hébert Logerie is the author of several books of poetry.

What I always say is
when you get older
you can't always remember what
what you always say is

Remember them, for they were once like you,
With hopes, emotions, days of grey and blue.
Accepting combat, trying to win through,
To fight again, for freedom.
Remember them, for they were young and green,
With so much life ahead, as yet unseen.
They knew not what they faced, but all were keen,
To fight again, for freedom.
Remember them, each fought to give us peace,
That each fierce conflict in this world, would cease.
And then when all was done, they’d find release,
From fighting foes, for freedom.
Remember them, who’ve joined the heroes roll,
Their names inscribed now, on a parchment scroll.
Thousands did not survive the war’s hellhole,
To fight again, for freedom.
Remember them.
©   Ernestine Northover

Thinking can never be free
Stems from the conditioning deep in our minds
Cultural...Social...Literary tree
Glued to us putting us in a bind
We think our thoughrs are free
But are they really? ?
Any books or poems for that matter that we read
Or the ideals or the principles that we lead
Are all rooted to the mind thats been fed
All the learning from the life we have led
Every thought being a result from that
Whats the newness, may I ask? ?
Just be aware of what that signifies
Observe what it means, do not fight
Try and slowly uncondition the mind
Without a conflict that can make you blind
Make the mind still, remove all thoughts
Remove the veil of words, maybe it blots? ?
A flash of understanding, a rapidity of insight
When mind is not burdened by its own noise
It is the memory that really interevenes
Challenge and Response in between
A chattering mind cannot understand
Truth... which is like a thief creeping into a still  night.

God's love is unconditional
It is not bound by strings,
He does not give the bird a voice
Then tell it what to sing;
He does not give us wings to fly
Then tell  us where to go,
He does not give each man a mind
Then tell him what to know;
Life is an experience -
Each man will choose his way,
And if he makes wrong choices
They'll come back to him one day,
But still he learns the lesson,
Be it difficult or not -
God does not tell us what to learn
Nor dictate how it's taught.

Freedom is something
we take at times for granted,
it is only when we have lost it
do we see how precious it is.
Walking down the street
feeling free as can be,
but suppose we could not do that.
How would we feel?
If our voice was choked
by oppression.
What then?
Never take for granted
the things we enjoy the most.
The freedom to live
the way we choose,
for one day in the future
we could lose it
unless we are careful
in the things we do.
24 April 2008

Freedom, oh precious freedom, we ask not why we hold it so dear
we just take it,
for freedom is like a sweet laughter within your soul.
It's like a soft gentle breeze on an autumn afternoon,
when all is right with the world.
Freedom is the flame that burns down within our souls,
Can the flames burn within the souls of all,
or must the flames be drowned with tears of sorrow and pain?
For I shall not pass through this life in vain.
Let freedom warm the souls of all mankind,
for as I walk in the autumn of my life, I shall reflect
on my yesterdays and hope for our tomorrows.
For the reflections of our lives are like looking through
an hourglass of everlasting time, all moments are cherished.
Oh let us listen and embrace the souls on fire,
all souls are cherished.

And an orator said, "Speak to us of Freedom."
And he answered:
At the city gate and by your fireside I have seen you prostrate yourself and worship your own freedom,
Even as slaves humble themselves before a tyrant and praise him though he slays them.
Ay, in the grove of the temple and in the shadow of the citadel I have seen the freest among you wear their freedom as a yoke and a handcuff.
And my heart bled within me; for you can only be free when even the desire of seeking freedom becomes a harness to you, and when you cease to speak of freedom as a goal and a fulfillment.
You shall be free indeed when your days are not without a care nor your nights without a want and a grief,
But rather when these things girdle your life and yet you rise above them naked and unbound.
And how shall you rise beyond your days and nights unless you break the chains which you at the dawn of your understanding have fastened around your noon hour?
In truth that which you call freedom is the strongest of these chains, though its links glitter in the sun and dazzle the eyes.
And what is it but fragments of your own self you would discard that you may become free?
If it is an unjust law you would abolish, that law was written with your own hand upon your own forehead.
You cannot erase it by burning your law books nor by washing the foreheads of your judges, though you pour the sea upon them.
And if it is a despot you would dethrone, see first that his throne erected within you is destroyed.
For how can a tyrant rule the free and the proud, but for a tyranny in their own freedom and a shame in their won pride?
And if it is a care you would cast off, that care has been chosen by you rather than imposed upon you.
And if it is a fear you would dispel, the seat of that fear is in your heart and not in the hand of the feared.
Verily all things move within your being in constant half embrace, the desired and the dreaded, the repugnant and the cherished, the pursued and that which you would escape.
These things move within you as lights and shadows in pairs that cling.
And when the shadow fades and is no more, the light that lingers becomes a shadow to another light.
And thus your freedom when it loses its fetters becomes itself the fetter of a greater freedom.

If ''The truth shall set you free''
then I have earned my wings.
I finally have faced my past...
even the dark and evil things.
I don't need your forgiveness
or your patronizing smile.
I know that I must do this...
I've known it for awhile.
A part of me was frozen
yet now began the thaw.
I'll show you I will make it...
just stand and watch in awe.
There's nothing I can't conquer
no hill that is too steep.
I'll prove I'm a survivor...
that's a promise I will keep.
If ''The truth shall set you free''
then I have earned my wings.
I finally have faced my past...
even the dark and evil things.

Travel light a friend once said to me,
'Yeah right' i thought with my big screen TV,
but over the years I've changed my view,
now i know there are very few things truly essential to you.
Each move I disposed of more sentimental tat,
it became easier as i realised, don't need this, don't need that.
Then one summer's day i was forced from my home,
loads more had to go, into storage went some,
Now i live in a hostel with limited bits,
eight months on, the stored, do i need it?
With every possession also comes responsibility,
burglars shot to save a five pound DVD,
so now I'm working my way to cut off the slack,
i want to end up with just a rucksack,
then I'll have freedom, true freedom to roam,
wherever i lay, that'll be my home.

A BEST FRIEND-Makes a lunch trade with you even if he doesn't love peanut butter and jelly.
A BEST FRIEND-Notices you standing alone by the fence and invites you to play hockey with the rest of the class.
A BEST FRIEND-Chooses you to go camping with him each summer.
A BEST FRIEND-Puts chalk in the teacher's eraser so you're not the only
one who has to stay after school.
A BEST FRIEND-Smiles and offers a firm handshake when you make the
high school baseball team and he doesn't.
A BEST FRIEND-Makes you feel just a little bit better every time you talk to him.
A BEST FRIEND-Calls you when he moves into his new dorm room.
A BEST FRIEND-Calls you for no reason at all.
A BEST FRIEND-Mentions you each week when he kneels before his
Maker.
A BEST FRIEND-Never reveals the secret you told him the night you slept
over his house when you were in third grade.
A BEST FRIEND-Remembers who your favorite baseball player is.
A BEST FRIEND-Makes you get out of bed earlier and give your best to
each day.
A BEST FRIEND-Is someone I thank God for everyday.

A friend is one who is like me,
or is it one who likes me much,
and maybe someone you can touch?
Perhaps a buddy who would be
in all dark alleys in your need
who'd fish you out of murky waters
and bandage when you slowly bleed
he will protect your sons and daughters
and close the shutters on your house
when rains come down to soil the drapes
a friend will never bring a mouse
or other things like living apes
to scare you out of any wits
that you may still possess today
he will collect you from the pits
and hug you even if you're gay
he'll pay your fare on the express
and go to jail to take your place
and cleaning up of any mess
that you've created, to save face
will all be done without  agenda
no thought of payment does come up
and should you have a fender-bender
he'll hide your bottle from the cop
when very strange ideas come visit
and you decide to pack a shute
to jump, a nut's idea, or is it?
out of an aeroplane you brute
he will be waiting on the ground
his arms wide open and so nervous
and when he hears the crucial sound
he'll think back to his airforce service
and knowing what can go awry
the fretting gets his teeth to clatter
and when you fruitcake finally fly
he murmurs that it doesn't matter
yet as you float in to a landing
his arms are still in catching mode
he'll hide his lack of understanding
and start composing a new ode
to your adventure,  you, the friend
and if your mother or your brother
or any other next of kin
should die and leave you, let another
example of true friendship win
your hand will never feel the cold
or loneliness of cruel fate
and when you wake and have grown old
and all the world is in a state
that narrows down to search of gold
and greed that tramples all that's good
when anarchy eats moral pillars
and thieves no longer wear their hood
when doctors have evolved as killers
and no one seems to give a shit
about all others, beast and man
when humans are no longer fit
your friend who also has his clan
will not be busy with his life
but shake your hand and not let go
and if he has his own sweet wife
he will be there with her in tow
One could go on for many hours
to praise what real friendship is
suffice to say it never sours
and also hardly counts as bliss.
Yet, there are just a few small matters
a friend will stand, no reservation
and if the world is all in tatters
if aliens would attack your nation
there is no compromise at all
and loyalty must be extreme
to share it one will surely fall
that kind of friend is just a dream.
I cannot have a friend who likes
those who have sworn to be my foes
and who would drive their filthy spikes
into my back, who also chose
to live a life of pure decay
and without honour in their hearts
to opportunism they pray
it must be said, it really smarts.
Perhaps a moral could be seen here
before you call yourself a friend
just ask yourself if you have been there
to read these words that don't offend
are you prepared to stand, be counted
no matter what the circumstance
and would you, if the devil mounted
all out attack, could you by chance
be trusted to the road's last bend
or would you stop and smell the flowers
and worry that your life may end
this kind of friendship only sours.
So let me say it with conviction
a friend is one who is your master
who rules within his jurisdiction
and keeps you out of all disaster
and you, in turn are his dictator
who, firm and strict, with iron fist
will rule like Arn the Terminator
I hope by now you get my gist.

He laughed and I laughed with him,
He joked and I joked too,
He smiled and took away despair,
And with it, the doldrums flew.
He raised my spirits upwards,
And left no dread behind,
He was the perfect anecdote,
He was so sweet and kind.
The heart can become heavy,
With all the pressures found,
And when this starts to happen,
You need him to be around.
We all need some uplifting,
We all need light relief,
If one can do this for someone,
It's a gift beyond belief.
©   Ernestine Northover

A Friend:
One, Who Helps You Get Out Of A Jam
A Partner:
… Is Usually In The  Jam With You
A Pal:
Is The One, Who Usually Gets You In The Jam
An Acquaintance:
Someone, Who Heard About The Jam
A Buddy:
Says … Its Your Own Jam Fault …

My best friend had lots of curls
but wasn’t like the other girls
who stayed dressed up and always clean.
My best friend wore old blue jeans.
She loved to do things just like me,
like building forts and climbing trees.
She stubbed her toe, and to stop the blood,
we both walked barefoot through the mud.
She could pitch a baseball, make it fly
much faster than most any guy.
And when she ran, her feet had wings!
My best friend could do anything.
All summer long we stayed outside
pretending things and riding bikes
or sometimes wading in the creek
where I fell down and skinned my knee.
One autumn day, I saw her cry.
I felt so sad when she told me why.
The doctors told her she was sick
and she needed treatment, really quick.
Her parents drove her.  I watched them go,
and doctors still don’t really know
just how to cure the thing she had
that made her sick and feel so bad.
One rainy night she went away
up to heaven where she will stay,
but her memory will never end
‘cause I’ll always remember
my best friend.

—he's a dandy
—small moustache
—usually sucking on a cigar
he tends to lean into cars as he
transacts business
first time I met him, he said,
"hey! ya gonna make a
killin'?"
"maybe," I answered.
next meeting it was:
"hey, Ramrod! what's
happening?"
"very little," I told
him.
next time I had my girlfriend with me
and he just
grinned.
next time I was
alone.
"hey," he asked, "where's the young
chick?"
"I left her at home...."
"
Bullshit
! I'll bet she dumped
you!"
and the next time
he really leaned into the car:
"what's a guy like
you
doing driving a
BMW! I'll bet you inherited your
money, you didn't get this car with your
brains!"
"how'd you guess?" I
answered.
that was some weeks ago.
I haven't seen him lately.
feIlow like that, chances are he just moved on
to better
things.

AH! think no more that Life's delusive joys,
Can charm my thoughts from FRIENDSHIP'S dearer claim;
Or wound a heart, that scarce a wish employs,
For age to censure, or discretion blame.
Tir'd of the world, my weary mind recoils
From splendid scenes, and transitory joys;
From fell Ambition's false and fruitless toils,
From hope that flatters, and from bliss that cloys.
With THEE, above the taunts of empty pride,
The rigid frowns to youthful error given;
Content in solitude my griefs I'll hide,
Thy voice my counsellor­thy smiles my Heaven.
With thee I'll hail the morn's returning ray,
Or climb the dewy mountain bleak and cold;
On the smooth lake observe the sun-beams play,
Or mark the infant flow'rs their buds unfold.
Pleas'd will I watch the glitt'ring queen of Night
Spread her white mantle o'er the face of Heaven;
And from thy converse snatch the pure delight,
By truth sublime to MENTAL feeling given.
And as the varying seasons glide away,
This moral lesson shall my bosom learn,
How TIME steals on, while blissful hours decay
Like fleeting shadows;­NEVER to return.
And when I see thy warm unspotted mind,
Torn with the wound of broken FRIENDSHIP'S dart;
When sickness chills thy breast with pangs unkind,
Or ruthless sorrow preys upon thy heart;
The task be MINE to soothe thee to repose,
To check the sigh, and wipe the trickling tear,
Or with soft SYMPATHY to share thy woes;
O, proudest rapture of the soul sincere !
And ye who flutter thro' the vacant hour,
Where tasteless Apathy's empoison'd wand
Arrests the vagrant sense with numbing pow'r,
While vanquish'd REASON bows at her command.
O say, what bliss can transient Life bestow,
What balm so grateful to the social mind,
As FRIENDSHIP'S voice­where gentle precepts flow
From the blest source of sentiment refin'd?
When FATE'S stern hand shall close my weeping eye,
And seal, at length, my wand'ring spirit's doom;
Oh! may kind FRIENDSHIP catch my parting sigh,
And cheer with HOPE the terrors of the TOMB.

So long you wandered on the dusky plain,
Where flit the shadows with their endless cry,
You reach the shore where all the world goes by,
You leave the strife, the slavery, the pain;
But we, but we, the mortals that remain
In vain stretch hands; for Charon sullenly
Drives us afar, we may not come anigh
Till that last mystic obolus we gain.
But you are happy in the quiet place,
And with the learned lovers of old days,
And with your love, you wander ever-more
In the dim woods, and drink forgetfulness
Of us your friends, a weary crowd that press
About the gate, or labour at the oar.

Since shed or cottage I have none,
I sing the more, that thou hast one;
To whose glad threshold, and free door
I may a Poet come, though poor;
And eat with thee a savoury bit,
Paying but common thanks for it.
--Yet should I chance, my Wicks, to see
An over-leaven look in thee,
To sour the bread, and turn the beer
To an exalted vinegar;
Or should'st thou prize me as a dish
Of thrice-boil'd worts, or third-day's fish,
I'd rather hungry go and come
Than to thy house be burdensome;
Yet, in my depth of grief, I'd be
One that should drop his beads for thee.

The great, green gob
was opened wide
and a wriggling worm
was fed inside.
The boy said, 'Mum,
the frog he comes
and sees me every day,
but a grass snake lurks
and slyly works
his slithers by the way'.
Then the snake, like lightning,
makes a strike.
The boy he quickly starts
and jaws around
the great, green gob
are gently eased apart.
Now frog and snake
their freedom take
from the boy
with a pounding heart.

An old frog
Once I was a human,
Now i am a frog sitting on the edge of a pond,
gazing simply with eyes with eyeless muse,
ripple one after another,
One is falling to the chest of naught and
another is rising to fall,
One is dying and another moving to die
taking the source from the dying spark.
Wave from theunknown point,
from shoreless Deepness surging to die
to roundish stillness.
The old pond with new and eternally new surge,
The beginning and the end and the flow of restless tide only falsify the search,
An Old pond and a frog sitting careless for nothing to earn.
Wave one on another is rising to fall and falling​ to rise.

Summer grows old, cold-blooded mother.
The insects are scant, skinny.
In these palustral homes we only
Croak and wither.
Mornings dissipate in somnolence.
The sun brightens tardily
Among the pithless reeds. Flies fail us.
he fen sickens.
Frost drops even the spider. Clearly
The genius of plenitude
Houses himself elsewhwere. Our folk thin
Lamentably.

France and China feed from your demise,
Restaurateurs are not exactly chums,
Oh how they rave about your tender thighs!
Gourmand orders - another frog succumbs…
Copyright © Mark R Slaughter 2010
< br>
< br>                                            frog
frog            frog
frog                           frog
frog                                          frog
frog                                                       frog
Frog                                                                   frog

the frog and I
exchange glances
both motionless
three flies circling
the frog
two flies circling

When speaking
this orator sounds
like a frog

When the rain pattered
The frog started croaking
The monkey on the tree warned
'Danger is in ambush'
She wouldn't listen too
'I know, my father
Keeps saying this'
She said
The monkey didn't ask
'Is your father too a monkey? '
The frog got finished
In one hiss
So was she finished
In one miss

What a wonderful bird the frog are!
When he stands he sit almost;
When he hop he fly almost.
He ain't got no sense hardly;
He ain't got no tail hardly either.
When he sit, he sits on what he ain't got almost.

When I was a kid
I caught a poison dart frog;
Its skin was golden!

Frogs sing lullaby
Noise whacking the rainy night
Inspiration snooze

Let us begin and carry up this corpse,
Singing together.
Leave we the common crofts, the vulgar thorpes
Each in its tether
Sleeping safe on the bosom of the plain,
Cared-for till cock-crow:
Look out if yonder be not day again
Rimming the rock-row!
That's the appropriate country; there, man's thought,
Rarer, intenser,
Self-gathered for an outbreak, as it ought,
Chafes in the censer.
Leave we the unlettered plain its herd and crop;
Seek we sepulture
On a tall mountain, citied to the top,
Crowded with culture!
All the peaks soar, but one the rest excels;
Clouds overcome it;
No! yonder sparkle is the citadel's
Circling its summit.
Thither our path lies; wind we up the heights:
Wait ye the warning?
Our low life was the level's and the night's;
He's for the morning.
Step to a tune, square chests, erect each head,
'Ware the beholders!
This is our master, famous, calm and dead,
Borne on our shoulders.
Sleep, crop and herd! sleep, darkling thorpe and croft,
Safe from the weather!
He, whom we convoy to his grave aloft,
Singing together,
He was a man born with thy face and throat,
Lyric Apollo!
Long he lived nameless: how should spring take note
Winter would follow?
Till lo, the little touch, and youth was gone!
Cramped and diminished,
Moaned he, "New measures, other feet anon!
My dance is finished"?
No, that's the world's way: (keep the mountain-side,
Make for the city!)
He knew the signal, and stepped on with pride
Over men's pity;
Left play for work, and grappled with the world
Bent on escaping:
"What's in the scroll," quoth he, "thou keepest furled
Show me their shaping,
Theirs who most studied man, the bard and sage,--
Give!"--So, he gowned him,
Straight got by heart that book to its last page:
Learned, we found him.
Yea, but we found him bald too, eyes like lead,
Accents uncertain:
"Time to taste life," another would have said,
"Up with the curtain!"
This man said rather, "Actual life comes next?
Patience a moment!
Grant I have mastered learning's crabbed text,
Still there's the comment.
Let me know all! Prate not of most or least,
Painful or easy!
Even to the crumbs I'd fain eat up the feast,
Ay, nor feel queasy."
Oh, such a life as he resolved to live,
When he had learned it,
When he had gathered all books had to give!
Sooner, he spurned it.
Image the whole, then execute the parts--
Fancy the fabric
Quite, ere you build, ere steel strike fire from quartz,
Ere mortar dab brick!
(Here's the town-gate reached: there's the market-place
Gaping before us.)
Yea, this in him was the peculiar grace
(Hearten our chorus!)
That before living he'd learn how to live--
No end to learning:
Earn the means first--God surely will contrive
Use for our earning.
Others mistrust and say, "But time escapes:
Live now or never!"
He said, "What's time? Leave Now for dogs and apes!
Man has Forever."
Back to his book then: deeper drooped his head:
Calculus racked him:
Leaden before, his eyes grew dross of lead:
Tussis attacked him.
"Now, master, take a little rest!"--not he!
(Caution redoubled
Step two abreast, the way winds narrowly!)
Not a whit troubled,
Back to his studies, fresher than at first,
Fierce as a dragon
He (soul-hydroptic with a sacred thirst)
Sucked at the flagon.
Oh, if we draw a circle premature,
Heedless of far gain,
Greedy for quick returns of profit, sure
Bad is our bargain!
Was it not great? did not he throw on God,
(He loves the burthen)--
God's task to make the heavenly period
Perfect the earthen?
Did not he magnify the mind, show clear
Just what it all meant?
He would not discount life, as fools do here,
Paid by instalment.
He ventured neck or nothing--heaven's success
Found, or earth's failure:
"Wilt thou trust death or not?" He answered "Yes:
Hence with life's pale lure!"
That low man seeks a little thing to do,
Sees it and does it:
This high man, with a great thing to pursue,
Dies ere he knows it.
That low man goes on adding one to one,
His hundred's soon hit:
This high man, aiming at a million,
Misses an unit.
That, has the world here--should he need the next,
Let the world mind him!
This, throws himself on God, and unperplexed
Seeking shall find him.
So, with the throttling hands of death at strife,
Ground he at grammar;
Still, thro' the rattle, parts of speech were rife:
While he could stammer
He settled Hoti's business--let it be!--
Properly based Oun--
Gave us the doctrine of the enclitic De,
Dead from the waist down.
Well, here's the platform, here's the proper place:
Hail to your purlieus,
All ye highfliers of the feathered race,
Swallows and curlews!
Here's the top-peak; the multitude below
Live, for they can, there:
This man decided not to Live but Know--
Bury this man there?
Here--here's his place, where meteors shoot, clouds form,
Lightnings are loosened,
Stars come and go! Let joy break with the storm,
Peace let the dew send!
Lofty designs must close in like effects:
Loftily lying,
Leave him--still loftier than the world suspects,
Living and dying.

Well, come to the new years ball,
have a fun time celebratin' the funeral of 1999...
'twas a heckofatic time, slime, mime, a promise of a better time, asses worked to the tale bone, pockets vacant, awaiting the lotaree of hopeless winnings spent of dreamin' losers, enjoyin' the pitance of a security, socialized, Roosevelts scam of the century, leaves old tired farts with no more to live on than scrounging snails in a garden of tumbleweeds, BUTT! there's still soap, water and free sunshine,9huntread and 9ty bucks for $1.99Ct sneakers of the 30's, no nice Jewish bred boy would ever wear a painter's dung-agree blue ripped pants, Levis, ?
HA i wondered weather one of my cousins invented the 'poor mans' shameful garb, models have the style, bigdeal kalvin klein put his own label name, and; the other crooked legged punks did the same, poor kids in mexico, eye think get a nickle or a dime, or maybe 'nough for a handful of riced beans to sew them for the crookiteers, Oh Yeah! tawk 'bout, write about, sneer for or accept, the price for fuel, milk, bread, rent, not to mention what it took to replace a 5ct trolley ride, eye could go on+on, u all know, if you're considered an antique of life, belly belt bustin', wide hip whipped creamed abuser, grey and clairolded defusered, and an invain irreplacement 'Dude', that got taken for a bald spot and touped for hairty hundred shmucked bucks, Forgive me Lord, of the universe, over seer of chanooka, xmas, budda, devoties of the services that knock on doors, and wanna save ass', i tell them it's much to late, as i turn to face them, ooops, aren't we all, 'about face' one way or an other? , i think eye still have all the soul savin' pamflit writlits stashed somewhere, fearing, that my world would come to an end before i see the new born,2000 babe if i throwthemout, go'head, if you're the one to dare, make a resolution! , promise yourself to? not? be? a? potty pooper and knitcrap into the next millenium without the protection of, life insurance and at least, some eyesorely credited degrees and a high sat tas phd xyz and; all ways to have; an ample supply of latexed peepee gloves....
Gotta get ready to feast with the loving Christian side of my family, I do love them, why? even some of my best friends are all
gentiles, as for the Hebrews, oh! well, they're still trying their case and i ain't takin' no sides, not even 'french fries'
Louie Levy
12 25 99
11: 59 8 7 6 5 4 2.....iz the ball on the way down, will it reach the bottom or not move a'tall? ?
Lurking in human minds, can be seen an alien, named 'y2k', Y this year,2 thousand idiot years, now smart, dependant on machines to run the clocks of fate, control our lives, deplete our impoverished security, and rob our very spirits of the unpredictable predictable, cancel all flights, ground the pidgeons, save our eagles, withdraw for the dresser draws and sleep on the doughed mattress, afraid to leave it unattended, woe's to the 'lectronic crazed minds of kids that hacked us unto the future of space roboted 'puter robbing monsters, hardly reassembling the dead flesh corpses of poor misunderstood 'Frankenkind',
2 million, times 2 eyes times billions, lookin at a lit spitball? freezin' their asses with no where to pee or shitinsight,
'oh honey! please hold it in, go'head, let it out, no one will notice the ice sickles frozen from your fly, we CAN'T miss the 'BALL' cummin' down for the Earth, aren't ya proud we're here in Newyawkcity? what a pity, they're nuts all here with us, it's not the same, TV lookin' at our one and only bawl, HEY! eye think it's movin'! ! !
what if it won't cum down? , will we turn upside frown, the subways will be stuck, howl we get home, i toldya i didn't wanna come,
hey schmuck! stop pushin' and get your paw of my..., this is NO time for that, later, the ball's cumin' down! yeah yeah yeah! 3 2 1... whew! she made it, we're saved! '
'HAPPY NEW YEAR! ' world,
did all your balls work like ours? sure hope so, after all,
We in New Yawk, have the greatest one, ball, that is, in the hole world! and now we gotta put it back for next year, hmmm,
what if we don't even have no balls then and they just show pictures?
Oh well, who cares?
'i just love your hand on my, ooops, it's gettin' warmer every year, greenhouse aflick, ya know? ? '
Migrated Louie Levy
TV, at home in Southern Ca
2000

There was a dead bird on the grass,
Next to the sidewalk.
It's life had fled, somewhere up high,
Higher than it could ever have hoped to fly,
Into the infinite.
The twisted neck, the half shut eyes,
The wings outstretched,
As if, only, one final time,
They could lift him high and away,
From all Earthly dangers.
For some reason I envisioned,
In my minds eye,
The sweet little bird flying,
Headlong into the telephone wire,
Dying instantly, painlessly.
For other than the twisted neck,
There were no signs of violence,
On it's fragile avian body.
Only a few feathers,
Scattered ignominiously around.
Then a terrible, and inexplicable sadness,
Completely overwhelmed me.
And my body started to shake,
And from somewhere deep inside my soul my, very being,
A sob wrenched itself loose.
I could not in all honesty explain this.
Was it that I would never hear,
Him sing his songs?
Or dive bomb a cat,
While eying him meticulously from a limb.
Or was it just the obscene way,
That he was lying splayed on the grass.
Feathers all askew,
His toes curled up in the throes of death,
The neck twisted at an impossible angle.
But the merciful wind, in it's infinite wisdom,
Had blown a paper bag up against the fence.
This then, became the mockingbirds coffin.
And his funeral procession lead straight to my backyard.
As one last time, he visited his neighborhood.
There underneath a hackberry tree,
Filled with the berries,
That his folk love so much,
His broken little body nestled,
Into the welcoming arms of the Earth.
I would be a liar, if I said, I knew what made me,
Bring him home, to rest eternally, in the shade,
Of my hackberry tree.
But God knows, I was so happy and glad,
I could do that for him.
And today, after the passing of so many years,
There are many such trees,
All around my home.
And it seems that every single limb, is filled,
With carefree, sweet, singing mockingbirds.
2/4/12 Alton Texas

It was first experience
I had to attend funeral procession at once
Someone had died due to heart attack
Entire road leading to crematorium was packed
“If you do not attend” father snarled
None would sent
Their family members
As dead body carriers
It is tradition for all relatives and friend
To carry dead body one by one till end
Lay body on cremation ground
Large numbers of people are always found
The body is put on funeral pyre
Given ignition to fire woods
The body catches fire in no time
It is reduced to ashes with little time
I was young and student
I had never been present in such procession
I though” what an end to final journey”
When we are carried away back to an almighty

APRIL 29, 1874
SUNG BY MALE VOICES TO A NATIONAL AIR OF HOLLAND
ONCE more, ye sacred towers,
Your solemn dirges sound;
Strew, loving hands, the April flowers,
Once more to deck his mound.
A nation mourns its dead,
Its sorrowing voices one,
As Israel's monarch bowed his head
And cried, 'My son! My son!'
Why mourn for him?--For him
The welcome angel came
Ere yet his eye with age was dim
Or bent his stately frame;
His weapon still was bright,
His shield was lifted high
To slay the wrong, to save the right,--
What happier hour to die?
Thou orderest all things well;
Thy servant's work was done;
He lived to hear Oppression's knell,
The shouts for Freedom won.
Hark!! from the opening skies
The anthem's echoing swell,--
'O mourning Land, lift up thine eyes!
God reigneth. All is well!'

The castle clock had tolled midnight:
With mattock and with spade,
And silent, by the torches' light,
His corse in earth we laid.
The coffin bore his name, that those
Of other years might know,
When earth its secrets should disclose,
Whose bones were laid below.
"Peace to the dead" no children sung,
Slow pacing up the nave,--
No prayers were read, no knell was rung,
As deep we dug his grave.
We only heard the winter's wind,
In many a sullen gust,
As, o'er the open grave inclined,
We murmured, "Dust to dust!"
A moonbeam from the arch's height
Streamed, as we placed the stone;
The long aisles started into light,
And all the windows shone.
We thought we saw the banners then,
That shook along the walls,
Whilst the sad shades of mailèd men
Were gazing on the stalls.
'Tis gone! again on tombs defaced
Sits darkness more profound;
And only by the torch we traced
The shadows on the ground.
And now the chilling, freezing air
Without blew long and loud;
Upon our knees we breathed one prayer,
Where he slept in his shroud.
We laid the broken marble floor,--
No name, no trace appears,--
And when we closed the sounding door,
We thought of him with tears.

Zeus mourns deeply:
Patroklos has killed Sarpedon.
Now Patroklos and the Achaians rush on
to snatch up the body, to dishonour it.
But Zeus doesn't tolerate that at all.
Though he let his favourite child be killed
this the Law required
he'll at least honour him after death.
So he now sends Apollo down to the plain
with instructions about how the body should be tended.
Apollo reverently raises the hero's body
and carries it in sorrow to the river.
He washes the dust and blood away,
heals the terrible wounds so there's no trace left,
pours perfume of ambrosia over it,
and dresses it in radiant Olympian robes.
He bleaches the skin, and with a pearl comb
combs out the jet black hair.
He spreads and arranges the beautiful limbs.
Now he looks like a young king, a royal charioteer-
twenty-five or twenty-six years old-
resting himself after winning
the prize in a famous race,
his chariot all gold and his horses the fastest.
Having finished his task this way,
Apollo calls for the two brothers,
Sleep and Death, and orders them
to take the body to Lykia, the rich country.
So the two brothers, Sleep and Death,
set off on foot toward the rich country, Lykia;
and when they reached the door
of the king's palace,
they handed over the honoured body
and then returned to their other concerns.
And once the body was received in the palace
the sad burial began, with processions and honours and dirges,
with many libations from sacred vessels,
with all pomp and circumstance.
Then skilled workers from the city
and celebrated craftsmen in stone
came to make the tombstone and the tomb.

The Rose was sick, and smiling died;
And, being to be sanctified,
About the bed, there sighing stood
The sweet and flowery sisterhood.
Some hung the head, while some did bring,
To wash her, water from the spring;
Some laid her forth, while others wept,
But all a solemn fast there kept.
The holy sisters some among,
The sacred dirge and trental sung;
But ah!  what sweets smelt everywhere,
As heaven had spent all perfumes there!
At last, when prayers for the dead,
And rites, were all accomplished,
They, weeping, spread a lawny loom,
And closed her up as in a tomb.

Thou too art dead, ---! very kind
Hast thou been to me in my childish days,
Thou best good creature. I have not forgot
How thou didst love thy Charles, when he was yet
A prating school-boy: I have not forgot
The busy joy on that important day,
When, child-like, the poor wanderer was content
To leave the bosom of parental love,
His childhood's play-place, and his early home,
For the rude fosterings of a stranger's hand,
Hard uncouth tasks, and school-boy's scanty fare.
How did thine eye peruse him round and round,
And hardly know him in his yellow coats[1],
Red leathern belt, and gown of russet blue!
Farewell, good aunt!
Go thou, and occupy the same grave-bed
Where the dead mother lies.
Oh my dear mother, oh thou dear dead saint!
Where's now that placid face, where oft hath sat
A mother's smile, to think her son should thrive
In this bad world, when she was dead and gone;
And where a tear hath sat (take shame, O son!)
When that same child has prov'd himself unkind.
One parent yet is left-a wretched thing,
A sad survivor of his buried wife,
A palsy-smitten, childish, old, old man,
A semblance most forlorn of what he was,
A merry cheerful man. A merrier man,
A man more apt to frame matter for mirth,
Mad jokes, and anticks for a Christmas eve;
Making life social, and the laggard time
To move on nimbly, never yet did cheer
The little circle of domestic friends.
February 1797

There once was a sister,
who loved to kiss her mister.
Til' one day she came home,
and saw her mister with her sister.
The funny thing is, he would still be here,
If he just wouldn't of kissed her.
Boy I sure am glad I was not her sister!
But even more so that I got to MEET her mister!

I didn't write this poem, but think its AWESOME! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
Its funny how hello is always followed with goodbye,
Its funny how good memories can make you want to cry,
Its funny how forever never seems to last,
Its funny how much you'd loose if you forgot about your past,
Its funny how 'friends' can just leave you when you're down,
Its funny how when you need someone they're never around,
Its funny how people change and think they're so much better,
Its funny how many lies are packed into one 'love letter'
Its funny how people forgive, even though they can't forget,
Its funny how one night can contain so much regret,
Its funny how ironic life turns out to be,
But the funniest thig of all is...
...none of that's funny to me.

It is funny, isn't it,
how fast one can go
from joy to sorrow
down life's twisty road.
It makes her laugh
even as she cries...
Turn the other cheek
or let love die.
So, he called you a liar,
he says it's true,
no matter what you say
or what you do.
'Tis soul-killing
to suffer so,
to be thought as less
than the truth you know...
Well, time goes on
and another day comes;
feel the soft air, the sweet warm sun
and hold fast to this truth:
that you aren't over; life is far from done.
(9.3.06 - The sun shines for you too, Little Spirit.  You're not finished yet...)
.

Funny you should say,
That the world is spining,
Funny you should say,
That Manchester is winning.
Funny you should say,
That time flies fast,
Funny you should say,
That's all in the past.
Funny you should say,
That death is dawning near,
Funny you should say,
He turned a deaf ear.
Funny you should say,
That life is full of honey,
But for that you need money,
Hmmm... funny.

She had been a late and only child to parents
already old and set; none of us had ever
wanted to go inside that hushed house
and play with her, her room too neat, doll-crowded.
We did encourage her later, though, to enter
the high school talent contest—after we’d heard
her singing My Funny Valentine in a stall
in the girls’ bathroom, reckoning the boys
would laugh, perhaps find us even prettier
in comparison. Still, we would not have predicted
those wisteria-scaled walls, the one room
we could see from the street with its windows
open year round so that greening vines entered
and birds flew in and out—bad luck, we thought,
bad luck. By then we were members of the ladies’
garden club, the condition of her house
and what had been its garden a monthly
refreshment of disappointment, the most
delectable complaint her parents’ last
Coup de Ville sinking in tangled orchard grass
and filled to the roof—plush front seat and rear—
with paperbacks, fat, redundant romances
she had not quite thrown away—laughable,
we laughed, unphotographable—with wild restraint.

I am fuuny
thats who am i
I am funny
Make u laugh n cry
I am funny
Do funny things
I am funny
I like to play with strings
I am funny
And i don't care
I look funny in my underwear
It's funny that im funny
Thats what i like to be
So lets be funny together
Be funny like me

I had a little puppy dog,
He was Jully the funny dog,
He did walk and sleep and run with me,
All I had to do was keep him clean.
He was really scared of my cat,
He used to hide under the mat,
He barked a lot when he saw the ants,
He used to rip off my Uncle’s pants.
He hates the cow in the farm,
There’s not one day he didn’t bring down the farm,
The cow was angry with him one time,
That she poked him with her horns and went far aside.
If someone shouted at me once or twice,
He would bark and bark at him more than a thrice,
A chick once he tried to swallow,
But, poor me! He couldn’t do more than a hallow.
When it is bedtime, he slept with me,
The blanket went to him rather than me,
He is good example that barking dogs never bite,
But do remember, his bark is worse than his bite.
All Copyrights Reserved To Meriam Joseph

I'm thinking of something Funny
And it looks a little Runny
I suppose it could be from someone's Nose
That the person never Blows
I'm thinking of something Funny
Could make your Day a little more Sunny
In Holland they say it rains like Cats and Dogs
But I say it rains like Cows and Hogs
Lets all Say,
A Joke a Day
Keeps the Doc. Away
P.S.
Please write something Funny
And you'll be my Friend, to the End
Well to the end of your Poem :)

Something's wrong with me
Or them
I'm talking the men and women
Who deliver the weather
All of 'em like heat
While I'm a blizzard through and through.

We hear it over again
Live for today
For tomorrow
May be the end
Still another day
Comes and goes
What I did with it
Nobody really knows
Tomorrow is
another day
And will be fuller
Come what may
For though the future
Is not mine to predict
Still many more boxes
Waiting to be ticked

Your journey starts here it starts now
Your future is in your hands and know one shows you how
To make it, unfold, and have it turn out what you want it to be
Not anybody, not me
Talk it a step at a time
Even if your plans are stopped on a dime
Be careful, and listen, learn from your mistakes
Because one day you'll advance on the choices you make
Your future is here, your future is now
But don't worry, you'll show yourself how

During the war, I was in China.
Every night we blew the world to hell.
The sky was purple and yellow
like his favorite shirt.
I was in India once
on the Ganges in a tourist boat.
There were soldiers,
some women with parasols.
A dead body floated  by
going in the opposite direction.
My son likes this story
and requests it each year at Thanksgiving.
When he was twelve,
there was an accident.
He almost went blind.
For three weeks he lay in the hospital,
his eyes bandaged.
He did not like visitors,
but if they came
he'd silently hold their hand as they talked.
Small attentions
are all he requires.
Tell him you never saw anyone
so adept
at parallel parking.
Still, your life will not be easy.
Just look in the drawer where he keeps his socks.
Nothing matches.  And what's the turtle shell
doing there, or the map of the moon,
or the surgeon's plastic model of a take-apart heart?
You must understand --
he doesn't see the world clearly.
Once he screamed, "The woods are on fire!"
when it was only a blue cloud of insects
lifting from the trees.
But he's a good boy.
He likes to kiss
and be kissed.
I remember mornings
he would wake me, stroking my whiskers
and kissing my hand.
He'll tell you -- and it's true --
he prefers the green of your eyes
to all the green life
of heaven and earth.
Anonymous submission.

"Let's make him a sailor," said Father,
"And he will adventure the sea."
"A soldier," said Mother, "is rather
What I would prefer him to be."
"A lawyer," said Father, "would please me,
For then he could draw up my will."
"A doctor," said Mother, "would ease me;
Maybe he could give me a pill."
Said Father: "Lt's make him a curate,
A Bishop in gaiters to be."
Said Mother: "I couldn't endure it
To have Willie preaching to me."
Said Father: ""Let him be a poet;
So often he's gathering wool."
Said Mother with temper: "Oh stow it!
You know it, a poet's a fool."
Said Farther: "Your son is a duffer,
A stupid and mischievous elf."
Said Mother, who's rather a huffer:
"That's right - he takes after yourself."
Controlling parental emotion
They turned to me, seeking a cue,
And sudden conceived the bright notion
To ask what I wanted to do.
Said I: "my ambition is modest:
A clown in a circus I'd be,
And turn somersaults in the sawdust
With audience laughing at me."
. . . Poor parents! they're dead and decaying,
But I am a clown as you see;
And though in no circus I'm playing,
How people are laughing at me!

The Greeks said, those great Muses
who civilise us, grace our dance of life,
were once, before they were nine,
just three; and before that,
only one was named: and she was, Memory.
Does that make poets just regurgitators
of what’s already been oft said -
and better, too, some would aver…?
No, it’s more subtle than that; ask a poet:
a poem that comes warm, hot,  from the human heart
demands a summary birth; won’t hang around
while you go out to buy more toys and frills
to hang around the cot…
it is indeed,  more like remembering:
as if you step into a timeless place
where all that’s needful is to remember
what the future poem shall, will, have said..
write it down; and maybe sleep on it;
when you wake, you may remember
two lines somewhere which you’d forgotten,
but know exactly where that is…
That Muse of memory will then decide
whether a poem that has a timeless birth,
may have a timeless life... or  not...
How can a poet claim a poem as his, or hers,
when such a Muse? and yet, so close at hand?

Runes and crystal balls
Tarot readings and your palms
tea leaves ring your cup
in a trance your future told
by a spirit young and old

A wanderer is man from his birth.
He was born in a ship
On the breast of the river of Time;
Brimming with wonder and joy
He spreads out his arms to the light,
Rivets his gaze on the banks of the stream.
As what he sees is, so have his thoughts been.
Whether he wakes,
Where the snowy mountainous pass,
Echoing the screams of the eagles,
Hems in its gorges the bed
Of the new-born clear-flowing stream;
Whether he first sees light
Where the river in gleaming rings
Sluggishly winds through the plain;
Whether in sound of the swallowing sea--
As is the world on the banks,
So is the mind of the man.
Vainly does each, as he glides,
Fable and dream
Of the lands which the river of Time
Had left ere he woke on its breast,
Or shall reach when his eyes have been closed.
Only the tract where he sails
He wots of; only the thoughts,
Raised by the objects he passes, are his.
Who can see the green earth any more
As she was by the sources of Time?
Who imagines her fields as they lay
In the sunshine, unworn by the plough?
Who thinks as they thought,
The tribes who then roam'd on her breast,
Her vigorous, primitive sons?
What girl
Now reads in her bosom as clear
As Rebekah read, when she sate
At eve by the palm-shaded well?
Who guards in her breast
As deep, as pellucid a spring
Of feeling, as tranquil, as sure?
What bard,
At the height of his vision, can deem
Of God, of the world, of the soul,
With a plainness as near,
As flashing as Moses felt
When he lay in the night by his flock
On the starlit Arabian waste?
Can rise and obey
The beck of the Spirit like him?
This tract which the river of Time
Now flows through with us, is the plain.
Gone is the calm of its earlier shore.
Border'd by cities and hoarse
With a thousand cries is its stream.
And we on its breast, our minds
Are confused as the cries which we hear,
Changing and shot as the sights which we see.
And we say that repose has fled
For ever the course of the river of Time.
That cities will crowd to its edge
In a blacker, incessanter line;
That the din will be more on its banks,
Denser the trade on its stream,
Flatter the plain where it flows,
Fiercer the sun overhead.
That never will those on its breast
See an ennobling sight,
Drink of the feeling of quiet again.
But what was before us we know not,
And we know not what shall succeed.
Haply, the river of Time--
As it grows, as the towns on its marge
Fling their wavering lights
On a wider, statelier stream--
May acquire, if not the calm
Of its early mountainous shore,
Yet a solemn peace of its own.
And the width of the waters, the hush
Of the grey expanse where he floats,
Freshening its current and spotted with foam
As it draws to the Ocean, may strike
Peace to the soul of the man on its breast--
As the pale waste widens around him,
As the banks fade dimmer away,
As the stars come out, and the night-wind
Brings up the stream
Murmurs and scents of the infinite sea.

I have climbed the mountains of wonder
I have seen the valleys of death
I have wakened the deaf with silence
I have suffocated immortals with breath
I have run from sure victory
I have stared in the face of defeat
I have bottled the wind from the ocean
I have prevailed when surely beat
All this I have done
All this and more
I know what the past is
But none of what's in store
Will the earth convulse in sadness?
Will dawn break and joy reign again?
Can we venture to the depths of space?
Can we travel to any when?
Confusion and a cacophony
Of breath and stilling air
The future does not matter
Because we are already there

Tis said of every individual that they can shape their own destiny
Though others will tell you quite differently and with such thinking would not agree
Who knows what will happen tomorrow who knows what your future will bring
Though at present you feel a bit ordinary and none other your praises do sing.
You may try to shape your own destiny without taking circumstance into account
And you may have great plans for the future and to little that too can amount
To if destiny does not point in that direction your destiny and circumstance
Does play a huge part in your future our gift of life came about by chance.
Who knows what will happen tomorrow you may feel sad and tearful today
Tonight you may win first division tattslotto and you can celebrate in a big way
Or tomorrow for you than today little different with your same set of worries and woes
As Shaw once said 'Life's Not Meant To Be Easy' but such is life one must suppose.
Who knows what the future will bring to you despite what some say it does seem to me
That we cannot look into the future such things are beyond us to see
Those things known as circumstance and destiny a huge part in our lives do play
And these two can make us or break us for in our future they have a big say.

Deserted by love
In the summertime,
I walk by the river
And speak to seagulls
And feed them my sandwich.
I used to worship the dawn,
But now, I awake alone
In a dreamless home.
I fantasize a departure
To an exotic place
Where I’ll have a new
And lovelier face.
A girl will kiss me
Who doesn’t intend
To make me cry.

She was weeping when we met
Outside a party store
Where the lonely purchase their wine;
Her boyfriend had left her behind
All sad and lost after a fight,
Most likely, about inconsequential things.
I picked her up, half out of human kindness,
Half to be beside a female body
Despite how red and unhappy her face.
She was a beautiful girl in a simple way,
She wore a plain flowery dress
With some charming appeal I can’t explain.
She tried to express in broken sentences
Why she and her boyfriend were upset;
I mostly heard tears and my boyfriend this,
My boyfriend that,
I tried to act like it was as completely earth shattering
As she thought it was.
She gave me directions to where she lived,
I drove diligently toward that destination
Without any attempts to prolong the drive
While I planned out my own strategy of a pass.
When I finally arrived at her place,
Her face was still red but the tears had dried.
She said, “Thanks, mister, you’re a nice guy.”
She got a little closer to me and touched my hand.
I thought she might kiss me, I thought I might kiss her,
But she scooted on out and made for her house.
I wasn’t expecting any action that night,
I can’t claim disappointment.
But I wish I knew if I should pray
For her and her boyfriend to work things out.

Her hero's gone away,
Will he come back another day?
She could not say.
She let her soul mate run away,
And something inside of her died.
'Now I don't want to come out and play',
The little girl cried.
Left all alone in such a big world,
He is not there to protect her,
No longer will he make her feel safe
In his warm embrace.
He used to love her but things have changed,
The girl is alone.
She let her soul mate escape,
Her insides hollow, the girl is left opaque.

Girl, when I look at your eyes
I see all of your genuine charms
I want to give you my everything
Including the moon and the stars
You're the one that I love
You're always in my heart
I think of you in every way
Whether you are near or far
Girl, you know how much I love you
You are my everything
Anything in this world, I would do for you
Love and tenderness is what I'll always bring
I could not love no one else
That's how special you are to me
They say that love is blind
But now we're able to see
Nothing could ever come between us
We have a special bond
We can stand on our own two feet
Our love for each other will continue to live on

Little girl don't you cry, everything will be ok
Little girl confide in me, I'll make your fears go away
Little girl don't lose faith, one day you will be free
Little girl make a wish, i swear I'll make you happy
Little girl i am your friend, I'll always be here for you
Little girl take my hand, be happy don't be blue
Little girl you're not alone, that will always be true
Little girl so sweet and coy, I'll always look after you
Little girl i know it's hard, but please don't you give in
Little girl please be strong, I will help ease your pain

My eyes first caught her across the street
She looked like someone I'd fancy to meet
She was wearing a long violet dress
But I was rugged and my hair was a mess
You were wondering who was this cat
Sitting on a rotten bench in a dirty cowboy hat
On his guitar he was trying to play some John Denver song
You laughed because half of his chords were wrong
She walked up and asked if I wanted a cuppa joe
I boyishly smiled and said 'I reckon so'
I strolled down the dirt road with this girl in a pretty gown
She said there wasn't a single paved street in town
At the restaurant he informed you that he was from Amarillo
Where the cops are awful and the democrats are yellow
You smiled and said 'tha pigs are worse here, I'll bet ya'
You nonetheless added 'welcome to Georgia'
I grinned as I stuck a Marlboro in my mouth
And told her it was my sixth trip down south
I said I enjoyed rural towns in this part of the States
Where life is simple with no technological updates
You somberly said you no longer find this place desirous
For the city of Atlanta is spreading like a virus
You said your days are full of concern and strife
For Atlanta's threatening your way of life
After coffee we took a long walk in the park
It was peaceful, there were no dogs there to bark
I told her I though she was very pretty
And apologized that I was so dirty
You bashfully accepted the compliments from this young man
And said 'well ah tra to make masef as beautiful as ah can'
Then he kissed you, which was a bit of a surprise
But you didn't mind as you closed your eyes
I felt kinda guilty for kissing her quickly without reason
So I told her she was obviously very smart and a good person
I said she was much nicer than city slicking bitches
Who are materialistic, dishonest and untrustworthy snitches
You looked into his weather hardened yet pretty face
And offered to take you both back to your place
He lowered his head and shyly agreed
You were glad you didn't have to plead
I awoke before her
With my mind a blur
But I hurriedly left a note saying I must catch a Greyhound
For it was San Francisco where I was bound
You woke up with an empty stare
For he was not there
You probably thought to him it was just a game
And that all men are the same

A week ago; only a little week:
it seems so much much longer, though that day
is every morning still my yesterday;
as all my life 'twill be my yesterday,
for all my life is morrow to my love.
Oh fortunate morrow! Oh sweet happy love!
A week ago; and I am almost glad
to have him now gone for this little while,
that I may think of him and tell myself
what to be his means, now that I am his,
and know if mine is love enough for him,
and make myself believe it all is true.
A week ago; and it seems like a life,
and I have not yet learned to know myself:
I am so other than I was, so strange,
grown younger and grown older all in one;
and I am not so sad and not so gay;
and I think nothing, only hear him think.
That morning, waking, I remembered him
"Will he be here to-day? he often comes; --
and is it for my sake or to kill time?"
and, wondering "Will he come?" I chose the dress
he seemed to like the best, and hoped for him;
and did not think I could quite love him yet.
And did I love him then with all my heart?
or did I wait until he held my hands
and spoke "Say, shall it be?" and kissed my brow,
and I looked at him and he knew it all?
And did I love him from the day we met?
but I more gladly danced with some one else
who waltzed more smoothly and was merrier:
and did I love him when he first came here?
but I more gladly talked with some one else
whose words were readier and who sought me more.
When did I love him? How did it begin?
The small green spikes of snowdrops in the spring
are there one morning ere you think of them;
still we may tell what morning they pierced up:
June rosebuds stir and open stealthily,
and every new blown rose is a surprise;
still we can date the day when one unclosed:
but how can I tell when my love began?
Oh, was it like the young pale twilight star
that quietly breaks on the vacant sky,
is sudden there and perfect while you watch,
and, though you watch, you have not seen it dawn,
the star that only waited and awoke?
But he knows when he loved me; for he says
the first time we had met he told a friend
"The sweetest dewy daisy of a girl,
but not the solid stuff to make a wife;"
and afterwards the first time he was here,
when I had slipped away into our field
to watch alone for sunset brightening on
and heard them calling me, he says he stood
and saw me come along the coppice walk
beneath the green and sparkling arch of boughs,
and, while he watched the yellow lights that played
with the dim flickering shadows of the leaves
over my yellow hair and soft pale dress,
flitting across me as I flitted through,
he whispered inly, in so many words,
"I see my wife; this is my wife who comes,
and seems to bear the sunlight on with her:"
and that was when he loved me, so he says.
Yet is he quite sure? was it only then?
and had he had no thought which I could feel?
for why was it I knew that he would watch,
and all the while thought in my silly heart,
as I advanced demurely, it was well
I had on the pale dress with sweeping folds
which took the light and shadow tenderly,
and that the sunlights touched my hair and cheek,
because he'd note it all and care for it?
Oh vain and idle poor girl's heart of mine,
content with that coquettish mean content!
He, with his man's straight purpose, thinking "wife,"
and I but that 'twas pleasant to be fair
and that 'twas pleasant he should count me fair.
But oh, to think he should be loving me
and I be no more moved out of myself!
The sunbeams told him, but they told me nought,
except that maybe I was looking well.
And oh had I but known! Why did no bird,
trilling its own sweet lovesong, as I passed,
so musically marvellously glad,
sing one for me too, sing me "It is he,"
sing "Love him," and "You love him: it is he,"
that I might then have loved him when he loved,
that one dear moment might be date to both?
And must I not be glad he hid his thought
and did not tell me then, when it was soon
and I should have been startled, and not known
how he is just the one man I can love,
and, only with some pain lest he were pained,
and nothing doubting, should have answered "No."
How strange life is! I should have answered "No."
Oh, can I ever be half glad enough
he is so wise and patient and could wait!
He waited as you wait the reddening fruit
which helplessly is ripening on the tree,
and not because it tries or longs or wills,
only because the sun will shine on it:
but he who waited was himself that sun.
Oh was it worth the waiting? was it worth?
For I am half afraid love is not love,
this love which only makes me rest in him
and be so happy and so confident,
this love which makes me pray for longest days
that I may have them all to use for him,
this love which almost makes me yearn for pain
that I might have borne something for his sake,
this love which I call love, is less than love.
Where are the fires and fevers and the pangs?
where is the anguish of too much delight,
and the delirious madness at a kiss,
the flushing and the paling at a look,
and passionate ecstasy of meeting hands?
where is the eager weariness at time
that will not bate a single measured hour
to speed to us the far-off wedding day?
I am so calm and wondering, like a child
who, led by a firm hand it knows and trusts
along a stranger country beautiful
with a bewildering beauty to new eyes
if they be wise to know what they behold,
finds newness everywhere but no surprise,
and takes the beauty as an outward part
of being led so kindly by the hand.
I am so cold: is mine but a child's heart,
and not a woman's fit for such a man?
Alas am I too cold, am I too dull,
can I not love him as another could?
And oh, if love be fire, what love is mine
that is but like the pale subservient moon
who only asks to be earth's minister?
And, oh, if love be whirlwind, what is mine
that is but like a little even brook
which has no aim but flowing to the sea,
and sings for happiness because it flows?
Ah well, I would that I could love him more
and not be only happy as I am;
I would that I could love him to his worth,
with that forgetting all myself in him,
that subtle pain of exquisite excess,
that momentary infinite sharp joy,
I know by books but cannot teach my heart:
and yet I think my love must needs be love,
since he can read me through -- oh happy strange,
my thoughts that were my secrets all for me
grown instantly his open easy book! --
since he can read me through, and is content.
And yesterday, when they all went away,
save little Amy with her daisy chains,
and left us in that shadow of tall ferns,
and the child, leaning on me, fell asleep,
and I, tired by the afternoon long walk,
said "I could almost gladly sleep like her,"
did he not answer, drawing down my head,
"Sleep, darling, let me see you rest on me,"
and when the child, awaking, wakened me,
did he not say "Dear, you have made me glad,
for, seeing you so sleeping peacefully,
I feel that you do love me utterly,
no questionings, no regrettings, but at rest."
Oh yes, my good true darling, you spoke well
"No questionings, no regrettings, but at rest:"
what should I question, what should I regret,
now I have you who are my hope and rest?
I am the feathery wind-wafted seed
that flickered idly half a merry morn,
now thralled into the rich life-giving earth
to root and bud and waken into leaf
and make it such poor sweetness as I may;
the prisoned seed that never more shall float
the frolic playfellow of summer winds
and mimic the free changeful butterfly;
the prisoned seed that prisoned finds its life
and feels its pulses stir, and grows, and grows.
Oh love, who gathered me into yourself,
oh love, I am at rest in you, and live.
And shall I for so many coming days
be flower and sweetness to him? Oh pale flower,
grow, grow, and blossom out, and fill the air,
feed on his richness, grow, grow, blossom out,
and fill the air, and be enough for him.
Oh crystal music of the air-borne lark,
so falling, nearer, nearer, from the sky,
are you a message to me of dear hopes?
oh trilling gladness, flying down to earth,
have you brought answer of sweet prophecy?
have you brought answer to the thoughts in me?
Oh happy answer, and oh happy thoughts!
and which is the bird's carol, which my heart's?
My love, my love, my love! And I shall be
so much to him, so almost everything:
and I shall be the friend whom he will trust,
and I shall be the child whom he will teach,
and I shall be the servant he will praise,
and I shall be the mistress he will love,
and I shall be his wife. Oh days to come,
will ye not pass like gentle rhythmic steps
that fall to sweetest music noiselessly?
But I have known the lark's song half sound sad,
and I have seen the lake, which rippled sun,
toss dimmed and purple in a sudden wind;
and let me laugh a moment at my heart
that thinks the summer-time must all be fair,
that thinks the good days always must be good:
yes let me laugh a moment -- may be weep.
But no, but no, not laugh; for through my joy
I have been wise enough to know the while
some tears and some long hours are in all lives,
in every promised land some thorn plants grow,
some tangling weeds as well as laden vines:
and no, not weep; for is not my land fair,
my land of promise flushed with fruit and bloom?
and who would weep for fear of scattered thorns?
and very thorns bear oftentimes sweet fruits.
Oh the black storm that breaks across the lake
ruffles the surface, leaves the deeps at rest --
deep in our hearts there always will be rest:
oh summer storms fall sudden as they rose,
the peaceful lake forgets them while they die --
our hearts will always have it summer time.
All rest, all summer time. My love, my love,
I know it will be so; you are so good,
and I, near you, shall grow at last like you;
and you are tender, patient -- oh I know
you will bear with me, help me, smile to me,
and let me make you happy easily;
and I, what happiness could I have more
than that dear labour of a happy wife?
I would not have another. Is it wrong,
and is it selfish that I cannot wish,
that I, who yet so love the clasping hand
and innocent fond eyes of little ones,
I cannot wish that which I sometimes read
is women's dearest wish hid in their love,
to press a baby creature to my breast?
Oh is it wrong? I would be all for him,
not even children coming 'twixt us two
to call me from his service to serve them;
and maybe they would steal too much of love,
for, since I cannot love him now enough,
what would my heart be halved? or would it grow?
But he perhaps would love me something less,
finding me not so always at his side.
Together always, that was what he said;
together always. Oh dear coming days!
O dear dear present days that pass too fast,
although they bring such rainbow morrows on!
that pass so fast, and yet, I know not why,
seem always to encompass so much time.
And I should fear I were too happy now,
and making this poor world too much my Heaven,
but that I feel God nearer and it seems
as if I had learned His love better too.
So late already! The sun dropping down,
and under him the first long line of red --
my truant should be here again by now,
is come maybe. I will not seek him, I;
he would be vain and think I cared too much;
I will wait here, and he shall seek for me,
and I will carelessly -- Oh his dear step --
he sees me, he is coming; my own love!

The sun goes down, and with him takes
The coarseness of my por attire;
The fair moon mounts, and aye the flame
Of Gypsy beauty blazes higher.
Pale Northern girls! you scorn our race;
You captives of your air-tight halls,
Wear out in-doors your sickly days,
But leave us the horizon walls.
And if I take you, dames, to task,
And say it frankly without guile,
Then you are Gypsies in a mask,
And I the lady all the while.
If, on the heath, below the moon,
I court and play with paler blood,
Me false to mine dare whisper none,--
One sallow horseman knows me good.
Go, keep your cheek's rose from the rain,
For teeth and hair with shopmen deal;
My swarthy tint is in the grain,
The rocks and forest knoww it real.
The wild air bloweth in out lungs,
The keen stars twinkle in our eyes,
The birds gave us our wily tongues,
The panther in our dances flies.
You doubt we read the stars on high,
Nathless we read your fortunes true;
The stars may hide in the upper sky,
But without glass we fathom you.

Where do you go, girl,
when you fall asleep?
for even when we've spent a passion's time,
you, all woman and all animal,
and then drift gently into sleep
and I to watch you drift -
you're straight away a girl again.
Do you dream a girlhood's dearest dreams?
or roam a woman's world?
What girlhood's safe, safe place
do you retreat to
in your private sleep?
Was it when the only man to love
was your beloved father,
still recovering from a wartime's hangover
with alcohol - and your so fierce, despairing help?
Where do you go in sleep?
while I now watch  this unknown girl;
an upper lip that asks so innocently
to be kissed?
And lower lip that just so innocently
enjoys?
Where do you go, girl,
so far, so many years away from me?
Where do you go, girl?

Can God? God can!
Can God? God can!
Can God? God can!
Do the impossible.
Will God? God will!
Will God? God will!
Will God? God will!
Do the impossible.
Has God? God Has!
Has God? God Has!
Has God? God Has!
Done the impossible.

God-Full-of-Mercy, the prayer for the dead.
If God was not full of mercy,
Mercy would have been in the world,
Not just in Him.
I, who plucked flowers in the hills
And looked down into all the valleys,
I, who brought corpses down from the hills,
Can tell you that the world is empty of mercy.
I, who was King of Salt at the seashore,
Who stood without a decision at my window,
Who counted the steps of angels,
Whose heart lifted weights of anguish
In the horrible contests.
I, who use only a small part
Of the words in the dictionary.
I, who must decipher riddles
I don't want to decipher,
Know that if not for the God-full-of-mercy
There would be mercy in the world,
Not just in Him.
Translated from the Hebrew by Barbara and Benjamin Harshav

I
Thou who hast made thy dwelling fair
With flowers beneath, above with starry lights,
And set thine altars everywhere,--
On mountain heights,
In woodlands dim with many a dream,
In valleys bright with springs,
And on the curving capes of every stream:
Thou who hast taken to thyself the wings
Of morning, to abide
Upon the secret places of the sea,
And on far islands, where the tide
Visits the beauty of untrodden shores,
Waiting for worshippers to come to thee
In thy great out-of-doors!
To thee I turn, to thee I make my prayer,
God of the open air.
II
Seeking for thee, the heart of man
Lonely and longing ran,
In that first, solitary hour,
When the mysterious power
To know and love the wonder of the morn
Was breathed within him, and his soul was born;
And thou didst meet thy child,
Not in some hidden shrine,
But in the freedom of the garden wild,
And take his hand in thine,--
There all day long in Paradise he walked,
And in the cool of evening with thee talked.
III
Lost, long ago, that garden bright and pure,
Lost, that calm day too perfect to endure,
And lost the childlike love that worshipped and was sure!
For men have dulled their eyes with sin,
And dimmed the light of heaven with doubt,
And built their temple walls to shut thee in,
And framed their iron creeds to shut thee out.
But not for thee the closing of the door,
O Spirit unconfined!
Thy ways are free
As is the wandering wind,
And thou hast wooed thy children, to restore
Their fellowship with thee,
In peace of soul and simpleness of mind.
IV
Joyful the heart that, when the flood rolled by,
Leaped up to see the rainbow in the sky;
And glad the pilgrim, in the lonely night,
For whom the hills of Haran, tier on tier,
Built up a secret stairway to the height
Where stars like angel eyes were shining clear.
From mountain-peaks, in many a land and age,
Disciples of the Persian seer
Have hailed the rising sun and worshipped thee;
And wayworn followers of the Indian sage
Have found the peace of God beneath a spreading tree.
But One, but One,--ah, child most dear,
And perfect image of the Love Unseen,--
Walked every day in pastures green,
And all his life the quiet waters by,
Reading their beauty with a tranquil eye.
To him the desert was a place prepared
For weary hearts to rest;
The hillside was a temple blest;
The grassy vale a banquet-room
Where he could feed and comfort many a guest.
With him the lily shared
The vital joy that breathes itself in bloom;
And every bird that sang beside the nest
Told of the love that broods o'er every living thing.
He watched the shepherd bring
His flock at sundown to the welcome fold,
The fisherman at daybreak fling
His net across the waters gray and cold,
And all day long the patient reaper swing
His curving sickle through the harvest-gold.
So through the world the foot-path way he trod,
Drawing the air of heaven in every breath;
And in the evening sacrifice of death
Beneath the open sky he gave his soul to God.
Him will I trust, and for my Master take;
Him will I follow; and for his dear sake,
God of the open air,
To thee I make my prayer.
V
>From the prison of anxious thought that greed has builded,
>From the fetters that envy has wrought and pride has gilded,
>From the noise of the crowded ways and the fierce confusion,
>From the folly that wastes its days in a world of illusion,
(Ah, but the life is lost that frets and languishes there!)
I would escape and be free in the joy of the open air.
By the breadth of the blue that shines in silence o'er me,
By the length of the mountain-lines that stretch before me,
By the height of the cloud that sails, with rest in motion,
Over the plains and the vales to the measureless ocean,
(Oh, how the sight of the things that are great enlarges the eyes!)
Lead me out of the narrow life, to the peace of the hills
and the skies.
While the tremulous leafy haze on the woodland is spreading,
And the bloom on the meadow betrays where May has been treading;
While the birds on the branches above, and the brooks flowing under,
Are singing together of love in a world full of wonder,
(Lo, in the marvel of Springtime, dreams are changed into truth!)
Quicken my heart, and restore the beautiful hopes of youth.
By the faith that the flowers show when they bloom unbidden,
By the calm of the river's flow to a goal that is hidden,
By the trust of the tree that clings to its deep foundation,
By the courage of wild birds' wings on the long migration,
(Wonderful secret of peace that abides in Nature's breast!)
Teach me how to confide, and live my life, and rest.
For the comforting warmth of the sun that my body embraces,
For the cool of the waters that run through the shadowy places,
For the balm of the breezes that brush my face with their fingers,
For the vesper-hymn of the thrush when the twilight lingers,
For the long breath, the deep breath, the breath
of a heart without care,--
I will give thanks and adore thee, God of the open air!
VI
These are the gifts I ask
Of thee, Spirit serene:
Strength for the daily task,
Courage to face the road,
Good cheer to help me bear the traveller's load,
And, for the hours of rest that come between,
An inward joy in all things heard and seen.
These are the sins I fain
Would have thee take away:
Malice, and cold disdain,
Hot anger, sullen hate,
Scorn of the lowly, envy of the great,
And discontent that casts a shadow gray
On all the brightness of the common day.
These are the things I prize
And hold of dearest worth:
Light of the sapphire skies,
Peace of the silent hills,
Shelter of forests, comfort of the grass,
Music of birds, murmur of little rills,
Shadow of clouds that swiftly pass,
And, after showers,
The smell of flowers
And of the good brown earth,--
And best of all, along the way, friendship and mirth.
So let me keep
These treasures of the humble heart
In true possession, owning them by love;
And when at last I can no longer move
Among them freely, but must part
From the green fields and from the waters clear,
Let me not creep
Into some darkened room and hide
From all that makes the world so bright and dear;
But throw the windows wide
To welcome in the light;
And while I clasp a well-beloved hand,
Let me once more have sight
Of the deep sky and the far-smiling land,--
Then gently fall on sleep,
And breathe my body back to Nature's care,
My spirit out to thee, God of the open air.

Since I am coming to that holy room,
Where, with thy choir of saints for evermore,
I shall be made thy music; as I come
I tune the instrument here at the door,
And what I must do then, think here before.
Whilst my physicians by their love are grown
Cosmographers, and I their map, who lie
Flat on this bed, that by them may be shown
That this is my south-west discovery,
[lang l]Per fretum febris[lang e], by these straits to die,
I joy, that in these straits I see my west;
For, though their currents yield return to none,
What shall my west hurt me? As west and east
In all flat maps (and I am one)  are one,
So death doth touch the resurrection.
Is the Pacific Sea my home? Or are
The eastern riches? Is Jerusalem?
Anyan, and Magellan, and Gibraltar,
All straits, and none but straits, are ways to them,
Whether where Japhet dwelt, or Cham, or Shem.
We think that Paradise and Calvary,
Christ's cross, and Adam's tree, stood in one place;
Look, Lord, and find both Adams met in me;
As the first Adam's sweat surrounds my face,
May the last Adam's blood my soul embrace.
So, in his purple wrapp'd, receive me, Lord;
By these his thorns, give me his other crown;
And as to others' souls I preach'd thy word,
Be this my text, my sermon to mine own:
'Therefore that he may raise, the Lord throws down.'

My God! O let me call Thee mine!
Weak wretched sinner though I be,
My trembling soul would fain be Thine,
My feeble faith still clings to Thee,
My feeble faith still clings to Thee.
Not only for the past I grieve,
The future fills me with dismay;
Unless Thou hasten to relieve,
I know my heart will fall away,
I know my heart will fall away.
I cannot say my faith is strong,
I dare not hope my love is great;
But strength and love to Thee belong,
O, do not leave me desolate!
O, do not leave me desolate!
I know I owe my all to Thee,
O, take this heart I cannot give.
Do Thou my Strength my Saviour be;
And make me to Thy glory live!
And make me to Thy glory live!

My God, how many are my fears!
How fast my foes increase!
Conspiring my eternal death,
They break my present peace.
The lying tempter would persuade
There's no relief from heaven;
And all my swelling sins appear
Too big to be forgiven.
But thou, my glory and my strength,
Shall on the tempter tread,
Shall silence all my threat'ning guilt,
And raise my drooping head.
I cried, and from his holy hill
He bowed a list'ning ear;
I called my Father, and my God,
And He subdued my fear.
He shed soft slumbers on mine eyes,
In spite of all my foes;
I woke, and wondered at the grace
That guarded my repose.
What through the hosts of death and hell
All armed against me stood,
Terrors no more shall shake my soul;
My refuge is my God.
Arise O Lord, fulfill thy grace,
While I thy glory sing;
My God has broke the serpent's teeth,
And death has lost his sting.
Salvation to the Lord belongs;
His arm alone can save:
Blessings attend thy people here,
And reach beyond the grave.

Thank God for little children,
Bright flowers by earth's wayside,
The dancing, joyous lifeboats
Upon life's stormy tide.
Thank God for little children;
When our skies are cold and gray,
They come as sunshine to our hearts,
And charm our cares away.
I almost think the angels,
Who tend life's garden fair,
Drop down the sweet wild blossoms
That bloom around us here.
It seems a breath of heaven
Round many a cradle lies,
And every little baby
Brings a message from the skies.
Dear mothers, guard these jewels.
As sacred offerings meet,
A wealth of household treasures
To lay at Jesus' feet.

There's a one-eyed yellow idol to the north of Khatmandu,
There's a little marble cross below the town;
There's a broken-hearted woman tends the grave of Mad Carew,
And the Yellow God forever gazes down.
He was known as "Mad Carew" by the subs at Khatmandu,
He was hotter than they felt inclined to tell;
But for all his foolish pranks, he was worshipped in the ranks,
And the Colonel's daughter smiled on him as well.
He had loved her all along, with a passion of the strong,
The fact that she loved him was plain to all.
She was nearly twenty-one and arrangements had begun
To celebrate her birthday with a ball.
He wrote to ask what present she would like from Mad Carew;
They met next day as he dismissed a squad;
And jestingly she told him then that nothing else would do
But the green eye of the little Yellow God.
On the night before the dance, Mad Carew seemed in a trance,
And they chaffed him as they puffed at their cigars:
But for once he failed to smile, and he sat alone awhile,
Then went out into the night beneath the stars.
He returned before the dawn, with his shirt and tunic torn,
And a gash across his temple dripping red;
He was patched up right away, and he slept through all the day,
And the Colonel's daughter watched beside his bed.
He woke at last and asked if they could send his tunic through;
She brought it, and he thanked her with a nod;
He bade her search the pocket saying "That's from Mad Carew,"
And she found the little green eye of the god.
She upbraided poor Carew in the way that women do,
Though both her eyes were strangely hot and wet;
But she wouldn't take the stone and Mad Carew was left alone
With the jewel that he'd chanced his life to get.
When the ball was at its height, on that still and tropic night,
She thought of him and hurried to his room;
As she crossed the barrack square she could hear the dreamy air
Of a waltz tune softly stealing thro' the gloom.
His door was open wide, with silver moonlight shining through;
The place was wet and slipp'ry where she trod;
An ugly knife lay buried in the heart of Mad Carew,
'Twas the "Vengeance of the Little Yellow God."
There's a one-eyed yellow idol to the north of Khatmandu,
There's a little marble cross below the town;
There's a broken-hearted woman tends the grave of Mad Carew,
And the Yellow God forever gazes down.

Trust in God
He will lead you through
Remember His Son
trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust

Like children in fear
Of their innocence lost
We all dreamed our dreams
At unlimited cost
But the reality of our hopes
Always seemed to be in vain
Because the hands of desparation
Left no ground for us to gain
Never seeing a way out
Would only feed our frustration
Like a hungry naked man
In the face of humiliation
And to the height of any challenge
We refused to climb at all
Because our hearts were far removed
By the fear that we might fall
But today we are free
To be the souls of all our dreams
As the fabric of our desires
Are held firmly at the seams
For with patient endurance
We reached a brand new plateau
Where our dignity and pride
Could have a real chance to grow
So let our yesterday's fears
Be a long forgotten past
As we face up to the challenge
Of life's new unending tasks
Like the stretching hands of time
We may never reach an end
But at least now we have the means
To fight back...to defend
For there may come a time
When our names are less than words
Our thoughts are never known
And our speech never heard
But in the time we have been given
Let us not forget this day
Because the price it cost
To get this far
Was a price only you could pay.

Four years may seem a fleeting moment
Leading towards a Commencement
Of highs, onwards to a new degree
Of lows to friends, a parting sorrow.
Moments endearing spent in school
Homeworks, thesis becoming a tool
Knowledge and learning- food for the soul
As graduation becomes a goal.
Looking back the early Freshman year
Made each classmate and friend so dear
Period of adjustment oh so hard
Oh, how College caught many off guard.
Then came Sophomore and Junior years
Drove so many several fears
Requirements of PASSING piling up
Doubling one's time, fixing the gap.
Then came SENIOR year, the FINAL stop
Practicum here and there, moving on
Seeing the light as the tunnel shone
Clearances accomplished now all gone.
Now as individuals marched and watched
I just can't help but shed a tear
Of moments spent in ups and downs
Of mixed emotions in getting the CROWN.
Congratulations.
(March 2011, Clifforce Poetics/Dedicated to the Department of Hospitality Management Graduating Class of 2011)

Today's the day we honor you, send love and blessings too.
Our prayers for you to know true joy through what you say and do.
Rejoice in your accomplishments for you have come so far,
A milestone and a victory that's brought you where you are.
And as you hold your head up high, embrace that scroll in hand,
Just hold that vision of the joy and honor where you stand.
For this exhilaration is the power that you'll find,
Propels and fuels the dreams you dream, the passions in your mind.
Those dreams can take you anywhere; believe that you can be
And settle not for getting by or mediocrity.
Enjoy and celebrate your day; remember as you go,
Your past and all your memories, the happiness you know.
Hold this treasure in your heart and walk with pride today.
Your road ahead has just begun; you'll soon be on your way.
A road that's filled with obstacles and opportunity;
Your choice to see what you will see, to be what you will be.
One door will close with scroll in hand, your gateway to begin;
With seeds to be a shining star whose time has come to win.

After many years of life and varied experience for me
I wish to leave a few words for you to record in your memory
Your about to embark on a journey that is paved with responsibility.
It matters not whether you are to continue your education or not
Be concious the next few years may not be exactly what you sought
Experience can be varied or routine but always given; believe it or  not
Responsibility and intent will be entwined for most of your actions
Be aware also that what you do, say and think, may be a quick reaction
What we do many time is not what was meant and needs a retraction.
The world can be your oyster and you can have your fill
.Life can be good or bad but rarely a bitter pill
The family is paramount and to destroy or seperate, is not God's will.
Every mind is precious and could hold the key
To open the door and  hopefully change history.
Time is not illusionary or taken out of turn
Who created our sun and set the parameters, so earth would not burn?
God gives us life, time, and most importantly light
The gift of a mind to recognize wrong acts from right.
The cause is not valid if the deeds are wrong
Nor is any act that removes life certainly does not belong.
10-22-06

Finished contemplating
cap list tassle proud
searching
are you kidding me
no employment found
humor me is this real
not what I expected
education will get you ahead
unemployment lines instead
no resources only  family
and government I'm sick
luxury, the first thing I can do without
that means catfood with no cat
while titans of industry
continue to get  fat
Lucky am  I
no house no foreclosure
only a second hand trailor
on the edge of town.
I am very sad.

Six years have past
You finally done last
This is the beginning not the last
Keep walking fast
Till next graduation of class
My heart was filled with sweet Alleluya
Of thousand of red roses aroma
When you saw me your diploma
You didn't turn down the sacrifices of your mama
We proud of you Antonia
Stay strong never surrender
All thing happend with God power
Never stop say a prayer
Faith unto Him forever

It's the hour of the graduation,
hope soars beyond imagination,
The hard work and sleepless nights,
are only the memories of the bygone days.
Feel free, as we always wanted,
Aim for the rosy future, as we always dreamt of,
Be, as we were meant to be.
The time has come for the,
exciting new life to begin,
The fear and anxiety of an unknown future,
don't even creep in mind.
The sweet touch of hugs and kisses,
from family and friends,
would be everlasting in the indebted heart.
the joy and happiness on their faces,
would be engraved forever in thoughts.
Feel free, as we always wanted,
Aim for the rosy future, as we always dreamt of,
Be, as we were meant to be.

Lisa, today you’ve made us proud,
Proud, as proud can be,
For today, at the Barbican,
You’ve collected your Honour’s Degree.
A Degree in Graphic Design,
You’ve worked so hard to attain,
And the Standards you’ve set yourself,
Through Life, you should always maintain.
Put the Craft that you’ve learnt to good use,
Remember, put your Clients’ needs to the fore,
And then you will succeed in Life,
Dear Daughter, whom we do adore.
With Pride, we watched you receive
This Honour’s Degree today,
Watched by Family and Friends,
On this 29th November 2005 Tuesday.
© Jonathan Goldman [JGthepoet] – 29 November 2005

I'M not kicking on expenses, now the sewing time commences,
I will buy chiffon and laces till they say they've got enough;
Sure her dress for graduation shall excite the admiration
Of the masses who behold her; it shall be the finest stuff.
She shall even carry roses, when her high school training closes,
For she's worthy of the finest that there is in all the town;
But I sometimes sit and ponder of the days away off yonder
When her mother graduated in a simple gingham gown.
I have watched the fuss and bustle, and this ceaseless rush and hustle,
And I've listened to the planning of this graduation dress,
And I know when all is ended, she will make a picture splendid,
And I wouldn't be contented if she didn't, I confess.
But I still recall the other glorious picture of her mother,
With her cheeks as pink as peaches and her hair a golden brown,
As I gazed at her enraptured, and my heart, I know, she captured
On the day she graduated in her simple gingham gown.
I'd be laughed down if I said it, in such matters they don't credit
Me with knowing what is really very swell;
I can picture now their faces, if instead of silk and laces,
My preference for gingham, I should tell.
But with me it's grown a passion, and in spite of style and fashion,
And what women folks think needful, I insist and write it down,
I shall never see another quite so charming as her mother
On the day she graduated in her simple gingham gown.

We have to remember that
'We eat to live - not live to eat.'
But this line is forgotten
By most of us!
The palate greed craves for food,
It is not just hunger but a reckless habit!
The mouth chews continuously,
Straining the jaw muscles
And the palate!
Like we need rest after a day's labour,
So does the digestive system needs to pause,
From constantly churning the food bolus!
The salivary glands,
The gastric glands,
The Brunner's glands,
The glands of Liberkuhn,
Become hyperactive and
Vastly enzymatic!
When the stomach and intestine,
Work at double speed
And overtime,
Obviously, the result is
Acidity and
Indigestion!
A glutton can never think
Beyond the stomach!
The question posed here -
Can such a person practise ‘Ahimsa'?
May be! May be not!
A glutton may not harm others but
He harms himself with excess food!

God don't give me greed
Give me more hope and sweet dreams
Don't make me jealous

Greed for unjust gain!
Corruption in the country,
Seen everywhere;
For the lack of wisdom my people perish! !
Because, they are not ready for the works of the truth.

Limited is the need,
Unlimited is the greed,
Engaged in misdeed,
I ignore your bleed.
Two pieces of cloth and a piece of bread,
Can keep me alive, I'll not be dead,
Shelter of a roof not touching the sky,
I can walk with feet don't need to fly.
But I want the greed,
How dire is the need,
Of a peace making deed,
See the painful bleed.
Peace of hearts and peace brains,
I should have it, no refrains,
Unlimited is this need,
And limited is my greed.

Where there is a need
There is always greed
A rotten exploiting deed
That manifests with speed
When there are mouths to feed
Read between the lines and take heed!
Lurking around is an Inspiring greed
Ready to take advantage and proceed
Even when there is no need to succeed
By now it is agreed, there is always greed
Our desire for more always exceeds our needs
Hence wealth, power and greed have always been married
We always want more
Sometimes I don't know what for
I read to understand what generation of breed
Has given birth to this senseless weed
Because life is a circle of endless greed
I urgently need to know, I plead
Who planted this seed of greed to deliberately mislead?

haggard souls rushing
overspending—overspent
with Ego's burden

A man of prosperity
He was having dexterity
Enough he earned in money
Little he gave to the needy
Or relative and friends
Those who were very poor
Even to his kith and kin.
He prospered in such speed
Together he was in greed
For money and gold gained
But still unhappy and bad mood
No one was devoted to him
Even his best half in dejection
Still he loved his money
All was well for years
Hypnotized on influence of money
Delectable events slowly lost
He became ill for ever
Even to drink water difficult
Swallow food was not easy
The day came, his death time
People says his eyes were not closed
May be looking for money
The safety notions in thoughts
Even the last moments of journey.

because politics by
nature is greedy
voters conclude
election must be based
on greediness
when election is based on
greediness
politicos and voters are
both happy
becoming more greedy
politicos buy
voter's suffrage rights
voters sell their rights
to cast wise votes
when both parties
the politicos and voters
are busy in buying and selling
the sacredness and sanctity of the votes
then Philippine politics is
ever evil and dirty

Greed is black in color.
It is selfish in every aspect.
It is normally one sided in nature.
It's glory is only for a moment.
It is like a deflating balloon.
It eventually catches up, watch.
Greed is dark.
It thinks only of itself.
It is very imbalanced.
It's happiness is fleeting.
It gets real small in size.
The seeds sown will soon reap a harvest.

Across the green fields
Up on the bluffs
High into the sky
A place I didn’t realize existed
Montana
Yes green
Once in a drought
It now is green from pounding rain.
God’s country again
It looks like a different place
No brown desert prairies
No desolate fields
It’s green now
A beautiful velvety green.

Lying within the soft waxy grass,
My eyes gently close.
I think of us beneath the trees,
Beneath the dark green grove.
Right here, right now’s where I want to be.
With your arms around me tight,
And the feel of the summer breeze,
And the coming of the humid night.
Not thinking of dreary autumn,
Or when you finally go.
Not thinking of the cold winter,
Or the white frozen snow.
Only thinking of this time with you,
And the perfect ness of this day.
Only thinking of you and your memorizing beauty,
But not when you go away.
I open my eyes and you’re almost real,
In this daydream of mine.
Of course your not really here,
Which makes me go back to the time.
I lay with you in the soft waxy grass,
While my eyelids gently close.
I think of us beneath the trees,
Beneath the dark green grove.

I hate him,
As I hate Hell and all it’s devils.
I hate him for being better than me,
I hate him for being better than everyone I know,
And I hate him because he is with you.
Why you chose him,
I don’t know.
I have known you for years,
I have told you I love you for years,
I have done nothing but show you my love for years
But you choose him.
You are so beautiful,
And he is so ugly,
You are so elegant,
And he is so common,
You are so perfect,
And he is so flawed.
I will make you see,
That he isn’t good enough for you,
I will make you see,
That I am good for you,
I will make you see,
If I can’t have you,
No man can.
© Charlie F. Kane
25/2/06

Now sitting outside,
The refreshing wind blows
Revealing the life of nature.
The grass may be yellow,
But underneath is a layer
Just waiting to grow.
The birds may be singing,
Dandelions may be glowing,
But will it last?
The birds may not be singing
The tunes that we hear,
It may be wails that they speak.
Begging for an answer,
In what they’ve done wrong.
Dandelions look like the sun,
But for them, they could be opening up
To whatever they have left.
Not wanting to be cut,
So when their second life approaches,
They will stay vibrate than grey
All because mankind got natures law wrong.
As I sit hear,
I listen to all that has been taught.
The trees are all dying,
The pond is overflowing,
From the dump we’ve been throwing
Between the beautiful silence
I feel the wind blow through my hair.
Then all you see is a plane from the city.
Polluting the air,
Just to get people somewhere.
Air is a limited thing,
No way can you buy it.
Replacing what once was,
Than keeping what’s there.
Experimenting a leaf, finding a bug
Scream, but only one thing,
The bug isn’t bigger than me.
Wanting so bad to kill it,
But killing that bug,
Is another phrase for extinction.
Life is a beautiful thing, but living in a
Dump is not.
Life may be short, some people may not
Care; saying no problem, we can get more
With the money we’ve been making.
Now, who in mankind, has the right mind,
To waste his money caring,
When he could be doubling it.
Remember one thing when life comes to an end,
What’s going to be left for the money of mankind?
The world currently may be black,
But let’s turn it green.

Into the warm, inviting yellow
twists a brush loaded with blue.
Surprised, suspicious,
the shades swirl round each other,
and then, by magic,
marbled patterns turn
to startling viridian.
It is utterly final.
Once made, the new colour
cannot be undone;
once committed, the blue and yellow
cannot be divorced:
this is a lifelong union,
longer by far than the life
of the artist who mixed it.
So it is with you and me:
bearing our separate lives
we have swirled and marbled,
mixed and mingled,
become one,
created a new colour
with an as yet unknown chemistry.
Together, we make green;
and, though parted for a while,
yellow does not leave blue
and blue does not rip itself from yellow.
Instead, two emerald puddles,
distant in space but not tone,
dream of being plastered on a palette,
poured into a pot,
indissolubly one.
For now, our separate lives continue
and we wait,
rationed to fragments of time,
which moves on,
as love itself draws breath
and looks forward to our next meeting.

That summer sun, whose genial glow
Now cheers my drooping spirit so
Must cold and distant be,
And only light our northern clime
With feeble ray, before the time
I long so much to see.
And this soft whispering breeze that now
So gently cools my fevered brow,
This too, alas, must turn --
To a wild blast whose icy dart
Pierces and chills me to the heart,
Before I cease to mourn.
And these bright flowers I love so well,
Verbena, rose and sweet bluebell,
Must droop and die away.
Those thick green leaves with all their shade
And rustling music, they must fade
And every one decay.
But if the sunny summer time
And woods and meadows in their prime
Are sweet to them that roam --
Far sweeter is the winter bare
With long dark nights and landscapes drear
To them that are at Home!

If  truth be  rhymed by the trust
on the edges of the green
you taught me the mathematics by abacus
I listen to your tunes by the innocence
Light when penetrates into the darkness
As  the world blooming in brilliance
And you lead me the way by your grace
As the green meadow flecks by the sun
Across the time of commitments
when owned by the intimacy
I simply followed you like a shadow
Even onto the last dregs of the night
Yet with all letters of resilience
I blink to the edges of the night abiding
yet frightened by the afflicted ember
faith seems to fledges when intoned
As your words whisper me of the rising sun
Even if grimaced by the winter chilled
Still light blazes the earth by the art of creation
When you stand by me by guiding agility

The force that through the green fuse drives the flower
Drives my green age; that blasts the roots of trees
Is my destroyer.
And I am dumb to tell the crooked rose
My youth is bent by the same wintry fever.
The force that drives the water through the rocks
Drives my red blood; that dries the mouthing streams
Turns mine to wax.
And I am dumb to mouth unto my veins
How at the mountain spring the same mouth sucks.
The hand that whirls the water in the pool
Stirs the quicksand; that ropes the blowing wind
Hauls my shroud sail.
And I am dumb to tell the hanging man
How of my clay is made the hangman's lime.
The lips of time leech to the fountain head;
Love drips and gathers, but the fallen blood
Shall calm her sores.
And I am dumb to tell a weather's wind
How time has ticked a heaven round the stars.
And I am dumb to tell the lover's tomb
How at my sheet goes the same crooked worm.

there’s a bright patch of green
on the Table’s lap
but I cannot see the sun
from where I sit
only the sun’s protruding rays
between the mountain peak
and the shoulder peak
on my balcony patiently watching
for the flying Xhosa girl
who lives down the road
to pass by, look my way, smile,
and wave a hand…
maybe this time I might convince her
to slow down a bit, and tell me a name…

Angels fall and babies cry
Walking around mindlessly insane and I don't know why
My vision of ecstasy is only you
That happiness that I've never had leaves me hopeless to
One week has passed and I feel pathetic, frustrated and somewhat insane
You made me think I could be beautiful what a horrible lie something so vein
My veins have been cut and my bruises made
But at your feet I fall and down goes my cascade
I promise to you that I will get better
But believe me when I say it's only getting harder
The thorn in my tights and my suicidal dream
Life is never what it seems
I love you there is no use in lying
It hurts so much I suffocate in the tears I told you I'm not crying
I mourn the death if my Anorexic  - Love but more for the death if my dearest friend depression
I hate you and don't want you, how dare you replace it and become my obsession
It comes to this, I no longer want you anymore
I need you and there is nothing I can do at all
You are the purest and dirtiest drug and I need to feed it
I tell myself I'm not an addict it's just a habit
But my tongues saliva is again full of these little black lies
But what can I say, darkness my most faithful disguise
From Satins heart to gods light
I miss you and I love you so I bid you a dearest night

Ithaca, October 1993: Jorie went on a lingerie
tear, wanting to look like a moll
in a Chandler novel. Dinner, consisting of three parts gin
and one part lime juice cordial, was a prelude to her hair.
There are, she said, poems that can be written
only when the poet is clad in black underwear.
But that's Jorie for you. Always cracking wise, always where
the action is, the lights, and the sexy lingerie.
Poems, she said, were meant to be written
on the run, like ladders on the stockings of a gun moll
at a bar. Jorie had to introduce the other poet with the fabulous hair
that night. She'd have preferred to work out at the gym.
She'd have preferred to work out with Jim.
She'd have preferred to be anywhere
but here, where young men gawked at her hair
and old men swooned at the thought of her lingerie.
"If you've seen one, you've seen the moll,"
Jorie said when asked about C. "Everything she's written
is an imitation of E." Some poems can be written
only when the poet has fortified herself with gin.
Others come easily to one as feckless as Moll
Flanders. Jorie beamed. "It happened here,"
she said. She had worn her best lingerie,
and D. made the expected pass at her. "My hair
was big that night, not that I make a fetish of hair,
but some poems must not be written
by bald sopranos." That night she lectured on lingerie
to an enthusiastic audience of female gymnasts and gin-
drinking males. "Utopia," she said, "is nowhere."
This prompted one critic to declare that, of them all,
all the poets with hair, Jorie was the fairest moll.
The New York Times voted her "best hair."
Iowa City was said to be the place where
all aspiring poets went, their poems written
on water, with blanks instead of words, a tonic
of silence in the heart of noise, and a vision of lingerie
in the bright morning -- the lingerie to be worn by a moll
holding a tumbler of gin, with her hair
wet from the shower and her best poems waiting to be written.

Ivy ties the cellar door
in autumn, in summer morning glory
wraps the ribs of a mouse.
Love binds me to the one
whose hair I've found in my mouth,
whose sleeping head I kiss,
wondering is it death?
beauty? this dark
star spreading in every direction from the crown of her head.
My love's hair is autumn hair, there
the sun ripens.
My fingers harvest the dark
vegtable of her body.
In the morning I remove it
from my tongue and
sleep again.
Hair spills
through my dream, sprouts
from my stomach, thickens my heart,
and tangles from the brain. Hair ties the tongue dumb.
Hair ascends the tree
of my childhood--the willow
I climbed
one bare foot and hand at a time,
feeling the knuckles of the gnarled tree, hearing
my father plead from his window, _Don't fall!_
In my dream I fly
past summers and moths,
to the thistle
caught in my mother's hair, the purple one
I touched and bled for,
to myself at three, sleeping
beside her, waking with her hair in my mouth.
Along a slippery twine of her black hair
my mother ties ko-tze knots for me:
fish and lion heads, chrysanthemum buds, the heads
of Chinamen, black-haired and frowning.
Li-En, my brother, frowns when he sleeps.
I push back his hair, stroke his brow.
His hairline is our father's, three peaks pointing down.
What sprouts from the body
and touches the body?
What filters sunlight
and drinks moonlight?
Where have I misplaced my heart?
What stops wheels and great machines?
What tangles in the bough
and snaps the loom?
Out of the grave
my father's hair
bursts. A strand
pierces my left sole, shoots
up bone, past ribs,
to the broken heart it stiches,
then down,
swirling in the stomach, in the groin, and down,
through the right foot.
What binds me to this earth?
What remembers the dead
and grows towards them?
I'm tired of thinking.
I long to taste the world with a kiss.
I long to fly into hair with kisses and weeping,
remembering an afternoon
when, kissing my sleeping father, I saw for the first time
behind the thick swirl of his black hair,
the mole of wisdom,
a lone planet spinning slowly.
Sometimes my love is melancholy
and I hold her head in my hands.
Sometimes I recall our hair grows after death.
Then, I must grab handfuls
of her hair, and, I tell you, there
are apples, walnuts, ships sailing, ships docking, and men
taking off their boots, their hearts breaking,
not knowing
which they love more, the water, or
their women's hair, sprouting from the head, rushing toward the feet.

As if we have
any answers.
Still, we imply.
All that I have come
to believe in:
the measurement of time,
the presence of light,
the moon, gaping at us.
Across the lake
there is a girl
running her fingers
through her waist length hair.
Or is it a shadow of something else?
It's intriguing.  I am intrigued by her.
By the slow split she makes
in that curtain of hair.
By the moonlight and it's cravings.
This has been one of the longest days.

My mom's hair is made of Chocolate Ice Cream.
My dad's hair is made of Mint Ice Cream.
My sister's hair is made of Vanilla Ice Cream.
My halve sister's hair is made of Strawberry Ice Cream.
My brother's hair is made of Coconut Ice Cream.
My halve brother's hair is made of Blue Berry Ice Cream.
My baby sister's hair is made of Banana Split Ice Cream.
What is my hair made out of?
All of the above,
and a hint of sprinkles; -) .

1
You scream, waking from a nightmare.
When I sleepwalk
into your room, and pick you up,
and hold you up in the moonlight, you cling to me
hard,
as if clinging could save us. I think
you think
I will never die, I think I exude
to you the permanence of smoke or stars,
even as
my broken arms heal themselves around you.
2
I have heard you tell
the sun, don't go down, I have stood by
as you told the flower, don't grow old,
don't die. Little Maud,
I would blow the flame out of your silver cup,
I would suck the rot from your fingernail,
I would brush your sprouting hair of the dying light,
I would scrape the rust off your ivory bones,
I would help death escape through the little ribs of your body,
I would alchemize the ashes of your cradle back into wood,
I would let nothing of you go, ever,
until washerwomen
feel the clothes fall asleep in their hands,
and hens scratch their spell across hatchet blades,
and rats walk away from the cultures of the plague,
and iron twists weapons toward the true north,
and grease refuses to slide in the machinery of progress,
and men feel as free on earth as fleas on the bodies of men,
and lovers no longer whisper to the presence beside them in the
dark, O corpse-to-be ...
And yet perhaps this is the reason you cry,
this the nightmare you wake screaming from:
being forever
in the pre-trembling of a house that falls.
3
In a restaurant once, everyone
quietly eating, you clambered up
on my lap: to all
the mouthfuls rising toward
all the mouths, at the top of your voice
you cried
your one word, caca! caca! caca!
and each spoonful
stopped, a moment, in midair, in its withering
steam.
Yes,
you cling because
I, like you, only sooner
than you, will go down
the path of vanished alphabets,
the roadlessness
to the other side of the darkness,
your arms
like the shoes left behind,
like the adjectives in the halting speech
of old men,
which once could call up the lost nouns.
4
And you yourself,
some impossible Tuesday
in the year Two Thousand and Nine, will walk out
among the black stones
of the field, in the rain,
and the stones saying
over their one word, ci-gît, ci-gît, ci-gît,
and the raindrops
hitting you on the fontanel
over and over, and you standing there
unable to let them in.
5
If one day it happens
you find yourself with someone you love
in a café at one end
of the Pont Mirabeau, at the zinc bar
where white wine stands in upward opening glasses,
and if you commit then, as we did, the error
of thinking,
one day all this will only be memory,
learn,
as you stand
at this end of the bridge which arcs,
from love, you think, into enduring love,
learn to reach deeper
into the sorrows
to come – to touch
the almost imaginary bones
under the face, to hear under the laughter
the wind crying across the black stones. Kiss
the mouth
which tells you, here,
here is the world. This mouth. This laughter. These temple bones.
The still undanced cadence of vanishing.
6
In the light the moon
sends back, I can see in your eyes
the hand that waved once
in my father's eyes, a tiny kite
wobbling far up in the twilight of his last look:
and the angel
of all mortal things lets go the string.
7
Back you go, into your crib.
The last blackbird lights up his gold wings: farewell.
Your eyes close inside your head,
in sleep. Already
in your dreams the hours begin to sing.
Little sleep's-head sprouting hair in the moonlight,
when I come back
we will go out together,
we will walk out together among
the ten thousand things,
each scratched too late with such knowledge, the wages
of dying is love.

At midnight,
We walk
In the crisp air
Counting the stars
Casting their starlight
Upon your hair
And sip coffee
In the sleepy town.

AMARANTHA sweet and fair,
Ah, braid no more that shining hair!
As my curious hand or eye
Hovering round thee, let it fly!
Let it fly as unconfined
As its calm ravisher the wind,
Who hath left his darling, th' East,
To wanton o'er that spicy nest.
Every tress must be confest,
But neatly tangled at the best;
Like a clew of golden thread
Most excellently ravelled.
Do not then wind up that light
In ribbands, and o'ercloud in night,
Like the Sun in 's early ray;
But shake your head, and scatter day!

They have painted and sung
the women washing their hair,
and the plaits and strands in the sun,
and the golden combs
and the combs of elephant tusks
and the combs of buffalo horn and hoof.
The sun has been good to women,
drying their heads of hair
as they stooped and shook their shoulders
and framed their faces with copper
and framed their eyes with dusk or chestnut.
The rain has been good to women.
If the rain should forget,
if the rain left off for a year—
the heads of women would wither,
the copper, the dusk and chestnuts, go.
They have painted and sung
the women washing their hair—
reckon the sun and rain in, too.

(dedicated to Ms. Patricia Petibon, a great soprano)
Where is happiness?
Why it doesn't show up lately?
Why it doesn't sound lately?
Why it doesn't feel lately?
or we don't know it
don't feel it anymore
don't see it anymore
don't want it anymore
Who's deserve it?
Who's need it?
Who's deny it?
Who's is it?
it feels
when you feels
someone else
feels it
it sounds
when you hears
someone else
sings it
it shows
when you sees
someone else
paints it
it rounds
when you are there
with someone else
works on it
it depends
how much you care
how much you dare
how much you need
it fragrances
in the blossom
of your flowers, your forests
of your smiles, your gardens
it dances
in the charming
of your pets, your seas
of your laughs, your children
it walks
in the colorful
of your trees, your lakes
of your rivers, your mountains
it jumps
in the joyful
of your Birthday, your parents
of your beloved, your friends
everyone deserve it
everyone need it
no one deny it
nothing like it

Confused tired and weary,
Like white clouds above,
Drifting in an untold story;
Night’s desire wrapped in cove,
With arms not lonely though;
Waiting for happy tomorrow,
To bring a passion to fend,
And not to drift in old sorrow,
Hoping to bring an end,
With the happiness borrowed;

Happiness is when you have very few troubles and worries,
It's when you have no reason to say to someone you're 'Sorry'.
Happiness is when you have someone to love,
It's when you can have a full-fledged conversation with the God above.
Happiness is when it's a rainy day, in your eyes the flowers blossom and the sun gleams,
It's when you're almost convinced you're in a dream.
Happiness is a feeling that comes from within,
Its a fast flowing, merry and jumpy sort of rhythm.
When there's no happiness, take a second and shut your eyes,
Just imagine if there was some, what it would be like.
Imagine you're in a bright colourful garden, imagine you're in heaven,
Within  a few seconds you'll be on top of cloud seven.

Stuff may happen that will get you down
Don't worry about it happiness will come around
Through the dark light will come
Someones always waiting for your love
In the thick and in thin
Someone's always waiting within
Your heart may shrink your heart will grow
All that i want you to know
Is that I LOVE YOU

I am no Christ, Buddha or Gandhi
Or a wandering fakir or sanyasi.
I am an ordinary human being,
If someone slaps me
I cannot turn the other cheek.
I don't think it makes me weak.
I find it difficult to walk
On the eight fold path.
I have no lofty mission
To free mankind of suffering.
If I can make one person smile,
It makes me feel satisfied.
For I can not spread happiness and cheer,
If I am miserable and full of fear.
I cannot be totally selfless,
And efface my identity.
I owe it to myself to love me,
I don’t care if others feel
I am selfish.
Happiness is not something
You can achieve
Merely for the asking.
With experience you will find
It is a state of mind,
You attain when you make peace
With what is.
Once the awareness comes,
You are no longer feverish and
Others naturally feel comfort
In your company.

I never had this kind of amount before
Twenty hundred dollars of salary
My first job at the department store
After completed my studies at Baltimore
I am so happy to spend my money
With my family and more
With all my pals and a girl named Mandy
Celebration of joy before I walk out of the door
To further my studies in the Varsity
Everybody were so happy for me
Seeing me happy
One afternoon, I received a call from Mommy
Telling me I’ve been offered Psychology
At Michigan State University
I was so happy
My dreams would become a reality
Rockefeller is working in New York City
Upper Manhattan is the place of duty
Residing in Hoboken Avenue in New Jersey
Made him crossing the Hudson Bay daily
One day, while refueling his gas at Holland Tunnel
He met a woman named McConnell
Music from the station was playing a love song from the Beetles
She was smiling at him and hope that smiles could be eternal
Guess what?
That meeting was actually ending in a marriage
They’ve succeeded in crossing the bridge
The bridge of love and serenity
They were living happily
Form New Jersey to New York City
Is the distance to be
George Bush was feeling so happy
To be back in the White House eventually
The crucial votes in Florida
Had distant him from Al Gore and his brouhaha
It was a history
Was he really happy
Deep inside only he knows the story
As well as the first lady

life unfolding
behind the velvet curtain
lies forgiven
goodness redeemed
hearts unbroken
finding long-lost dreams
in a wishful thought
minds eyes open
to lost hope
now found

No-one knew what subsequently became of her
after he went so dramatically, and after all those goings-on.
He got all the headlines.
The police didn't even bother
to take her in for questioning.
There was talk of riots,
they needed every spare man.
But the story never quite went away.
You know how it is with journalists -
we file it away for a rainy day,
then it sticks in our mind
for when we retire and write a best-seller, I wish...
I doubt we'll ever know the truth of it;
but every now and then
some nutter with a convincing sighting
makes a free gift to journalists
with no personal responsibility for us either.
France, Spain, Italy, gipsy communities -
you name it, they know her
except she was never there that day.
The story among her friends is
that she went on a long Mediterranean cruise
with two other ladies.
Yet there's no account of their returning
and there are stories that they all separated
and took up new careers in foreign places
where they acquired new names, locally
so the trail's gone cold.
But stories like his, and hers,
and whether they - well, you know -
never quite go away
and the part she played
though brief, sure was dramatic, so
it's made her a role model for those women -
and there have been many over the years -
whose lives have taken a turn for the worse
(no man can know what it's like
for a woman to hav e to sell herself)
and who see in her story
a hope of life's big U-turn
and all that we really hope for.
God knows we all need one.
Could be a Lloyd-Webber musical,
come to think of it.
After all, she was there
at one of the world's big events
- that most of the media
strangely missed...
Maddalena - it's a beautiful name
in Italian.
And then there's that delicate cake
that Proust dipped in his tea.
There's a place in Italy
where they take her story very seriously,
because some local writer
turned it into a classic of hope for the socially rejected;
a rather 19th century theme.
The critics panned it;  but does it matter
whether it's truth or fiction,
if it goes so deep, that it's true in a different sort of way?
It's called 'Maddalena of the Heavenly Happiness';
it sounds better in  Italian.
no, it never got translated into English -
it's rather
Catholic
if you know what I mean.
Though it actually took place
in the Near East
or whatever it was called then.

Sharing each other’s hopes and dreams.
Caring about what happens to each other.
Respecting each other’s goals and ambitions.
Committing to share everything with each other.
Making decisions together like all good teams do.
Being there for the bad times as well as the good.
Trusting the other to do the right thing in the relationship.
Knowing each other so well that reacting becomes instinctive.
Believing the whole relationship is the sum of two halves together.
Loving each other for person they are, not the person they could be.

into the unending work line comes a new beginning
of tolerance of adverse attitude, surfing the taste of
temper and luring smile
timing comes as it waits the gain that deals beyond,
human aspiration, the lasting praise gains no one.
but the soul that leads to the ground of sayonara in
the most astounding halos of goodbye
filled up the nice smile and return the forever respect
of the one who seat in the throne; the table and the
pen recite no one and see's the gratitude and the
work done even the night is gone
understand the boss, and jam what ever floats
in the air; knowing the good in the decision it gives
on your job the best goes flattered in the hand, the
whole things bless with fun
feel good, and save for a day, the fresh comes in
a wonderful awesome morning for you to stay, take
always the boss legacy, and chant the melody that
brings your pleasant moment with whom the
blessing comes in a spectacular happy day
the work is not yet over, always thank that the day
with your Boss will be a great moment to stay and
as you whisper a prayer, let this be the connecting
line of another life to spend with wisdom to live
stop, pose and confirm....... as you say Amen

I take the long walk up the staircase to my secret room.
Today's big news: they found Amelia Earhart's shoe, size 9.
1992: Charlie Christian is bebopping at Minton's in 1941.
Today, the Presidential primaries have failed us once again.
We'll look for our excitement elsewhere, in the last snow
that is falling, in tomorrow's Gospel Concert in Springfield.
It's a good day to be a cat and just sleep.
Or to read the Confessions of Saint Augustine.
Jesus called the sons of Zebedee the Sons of Thunder.
In my secret room, plans are hatched: we'll explore the Smoky Mountains.
Then we'll walk along a beach: Hallelujah!
(A letter was just delivered by Overnight Express--
it contained nothing of importance, I slept through it.)
(I guess I'm trying to be "above the fray.")
The Russians, I know, have developed a language called "Lincos"
designed for communicating with the inhabitants of other worlds.
That's been a waste of time, not even a postcard.
But then again, there are tree-climbing fish, called anabases.
They climb the trees out of stupidity, or so it is said.
Who am I to judge? I want to break out of here.
A bee is not strong in geometry: it cannot tell
a square from a triangle or a circle.
The locker room of my skull is full of panting egrets.
I'm saying that strictly for effect.
In time I will heal, I know this, or I believe this.
The contents and furnishings of my secret room will be labeled
and organized so thoroughly it will be a little frightening.
What I thought was infinite will turn out to be just a couple
of odds and ends, a tiny miscellany, miniature stuff, fragments
of novelties, of no great moment. But it will also be enough,
maybe even more than enough, to suggest an immense ritual and tradition.
And this makes me very happy.

Happy Birthday
Happy Birthday
Happy Birthday
How old are you today?
Happy Birthday
Happy Birthday
All the girls can stay
Happy Birthday
Happy Birthday
Turn and shake away
Happy Birthday
Happy Birthday
Let's jump around and play
Happy Birthday
Happy Birthday
You need a holiday
Happy Birthday
Happy Birthday
Wish you well each and everyday
Copyright 2005 Sylvia Chidi
www.sylviachidi.co.uk

Is there always a happy ending,
to every song and a story.
Some are happy, and others weep,
and then there are those,
that finish in glory.
Is there a happy ending, to every day,
maybe not, when your filled with grief
and it's not stopped raining,
and the sky is grey.
Happy endings are made by you
it's how you  work, and go about it,
can make that ending come true..
Just be yourself, however small,
and smile when things get out of tune,
a happy ending, can be found.
Then life becomes, just one honeymoon

my dad hides his whiskey
in the toy closet
beside the plastic planes
and under the fake grenades
he hides the gin
beneath the book shelves
where Frank and Joe Hardy
catch their first underage
the vodka
he gently places
behind the outside freezer
next to boxes, crates and forgotten chores
but the scotch,
the scotch he keeps near the kitchen
to grab on his way
..............................to the nuts in the cupboard.

The world is so full of a number of things,
I'm sure we should all be as happy as kings.

Oh! I am so happy
I am so happy at what
It is happening to me
I am getting Old
I am Ageing
I am loosing my teeth
My hair is turning grey
For now on,
Everybody would listen to me
The entire village would sit down
Quietly and listen to what
I would have to say
Most of the evenings
The children would abandon their houses
Rush to my place
They will arrange the fire woods
Which they will bring from
Their own houses
And put fire on them
Regardless of what their parents would say
They would still come to my place
Congregate around the fire
Even if I was sleeping
They would drag me out of my house
By force so I can tell them stories
Or I can give advice
One day I did run out of tales to tell them
They insisted of hearing the story of my life
Oh I am so happy to be ageing
Even when my mouth smells
Grown up still want to come close
To me and put their ear near my mouth
Not even closing their nose
And listen to what I have to say
Everyone wants to be my grandchild
Even those who don’t live in our village
Bow in front of me
As if I was the village chief
I don’t know if life can get better than this
But I still have major problems to solve
How can I get back
My privacy that I have lost
I am not anymore able to be
By myself and I am not allow to refuse
Any food that is given to me by everybody
Every single day as if
They were in some sort of
Food giving contest
Well… Anyway…
I am still very happy to be ageing…
www.frederickyamusangie.or g.uk

Another birthday, God has given you;
’Tis time you thought about your age and health;
God’s love and mercy in life has been true;
Your family and fortitude’s- your wealth.
’Tis time to pray extra: forget the world;
You did your part and duty indeed well;
Protect yourself from injury and cold;
Be wise: take rest and do not become ill.
Remember that you aren’t young anymore;
Your frame is frail and dangers lurk round you;
Your will-power isn’t as strong as before;
A long life-span comes only to a few.
‘Wish you a Happy Birthday, ’ dear Maama!
God be with you in your earthly drama!
From,
Mercy, Celestine, Cathy and Diana
Copyright by Dr John Celes 18-1-2006

Oh, come with me to the Happy Isles
In the golden haze off yonder,
Where the song of the sun-kissed breeze beguiles,
And the ocean loves to wander.
Fragrant the vines that mantle those hills,
Proudly the fig rejoices;
Merrily dance the virgin rills,
Blending their myriad voices.
Our herds shall fear no evil there,
But peacefully feed and rest them;
Neither shall serpent nor prowling bear
Ever come there to molest them.
Neither shall Eurus, wanton bold,
Nor feverish drouth distress us,
But he that compasseth heat and cold
Shall temper them both to bless us.
There no vandal foot has trod,
And the pirate hosts that wander
Shall never profane the sacred sod
Of those beautiful Isles out yonder.
Never a spell shall blight our vines,
Nor Sirius blaze above us,
But you and I shall drink our wines
And sing to the loved that love us.
So come with me where Fortune smiles
And the gods invite devotion,--
Oh, come with me to the Happy Isles
In the haze of that far-off ocean!

I hate how you left me without any sign,
I hate that you moved on without saying goodbye,
I hate how your smile makes me give in,
I hate that your always making me want to caress your skin,
I hate how you can't talk to me when she's around,
I hate that when she leaves you look me up and down,
I hate how you made a mark in my heart,
I hate that you let us drift apart,
I hate how when I say I hate you I don't really mean it,
But most of all....
I hate how you know I can't hate you.....
And never will.

.................Of this I know
as sky triumphs over rain,
the central theme in man,
of this I know
this feeling eats one alive,
leaves one without gut,
without eyes,
without name.
Indulge in it not
lest you are left half-eaten
in man's time, and God's eye.
Your poems are vapidity,
thin as steam
and without the substance
of the most fleeting thought;
your poems are nothingness,
as anger is nothingness.
Envy is poison.
What happens to
the color green
in other segments,
in other forms?
There is a repulsiveness,
there is a strange pain,
to kill, to kill,
to grow spite
like spite is its own
gnarled tree of life;
evil green eyes
come to no special place,
no awareness now.
If the earth gives in, soil and flesh,
evil green eyes have buried themselves, again.

I try to hide
But you just keep finding me
I try to run
But you are the one I bump
I try to forget
But you just smile and say
'Trying to run from yourself
Isn't going to get you anywhere'
I hide from myself
I run from myself
I try to forget myself
But when I look in a mirror
You stare at me with a smirk
But all I know is
I have to run
but how can you lose yourself
easy
Just kill yourself
I hate myself

I hate those who hate,
I hate myself for not knowing what to hate,
I hate life,
I hate love,
I hate not knowing of my upcoming strife
I hate not know of my oncoming love,
I hate those who hate,
I hate myself
I'd stop to hate for gold of my weight,
I hate all those with wealth,
I hate those who harm,
I hate those who hurt,
I hate those who use their charm,
To put others in the dirt,
I hate living as I ache,
I hate living in earth wake,
I hate people who hate,
I being the one who must be to forsake
Those who hate, must hate me
Because of thou hate I hate thee,
The point i must make,
Leaving myself without this weight
Is that I love to hate,
And all love hate when you hate what they hate.

I hate my life and don't ask why
Cause you might think its just a lie
Everyone hates me, Everyone left me
I know that it sounds crazy
But its true, if you can see
Be what you can be
I feel invisible but no one cares
Loneliness is what i cant bare
Tears run down, my eyes start to sting
I'm running out of tears, but i Kept on Crying
No more tears, need to cry more
Blood replaced my tears, but spilling out more
My heart beats slower, my breathing becomes shallow
I fall on the ground, everything becomes blury
I can die right now since no one cares
Yes, that's what I should do
I close my eyes
I'll go to my dreamworld
My heart stops beating
My body stays still, my soul breaks and smiles no more.

A crime is a crime no matter how you cut it,
A murder is a murder, a rape is a rape,
An assault is what it is,
A crime scene is a crime with the yellow tape.
If the prisons were to be abundant,
We can then send to jail all are convicted,
We don't have to pardon anyone out overcrowding and time off for good behavior,
We must send all the criminals that indicted,
Guilty as charged that is what should fuel our endeavor.
Are we really up to the cost?
Are we really up to taxation?
Are we saying we have lost?
Are we saying we'll pass another law,
such as hate crimes,
without a suitable explanation?
(11-20-2007)

I hate you
I hate you
I hate everything you do to me
everything you want me to be
I hate the way you talk behind me
I hate the way you stare at me as I go by
I hate the way you make fun of me
Every single day
I hate the way you make me cry at night
and each and everyday
I hate the way you tried to kill me
I hate the way you kill my emotions
I hate the way  you hate me more and more
each and everyday
you are the one that I hate the most for all the things you did
I will hate you more and more every single day
and I also hate my father because............
he brings you in as
my step-mother.

Ope not thy lips, thou foolish one,
Nor turn to me thy face;
The blasts of heaven shall strike thee down
Ere I will give thee grace.
Take thou thy shadow from my path,
Nor turn to me and pray;
The wild wild winds thy dirge may sing
Ere I will bid thee stay.
Turn thou away thy false dark eyes,
Nor gaze upon my face;
Great love I bore thee: now great hate
Sits grimly in its place.
All changes pass me like a dream,
I neither sing nor pray;
And thou art like the poisonous tree
That stole my life away.

Cupid, I hate thee, which I'd have thee know;
A naked starveling ever may'st thou be.
Poor rogue, go pawn thy fascia and thy bow
For some few rags wherewith to cover thee.
Or, if thou'lt not, thy archery forbear,
To some base rustic do thyself prefer,
And when corn's sown or grown into the ear,
Practise thy quiver and turn crow-keeper.
Or, being blind, as fittest for the trade,
Go hire thyself some bungling harper's boy;
They that are blind are often minstrels made;
So may'st thou live, to thy fair mother's joy,
That whilst with Mars she holdeth her old way,
Thou, her blind son, may'st sit by them and play.

Wrapped in your arms
Souls entwined
Floating in love's whipped cream
Silver lined
Heaven descends on earth.....
Swimming rose petals
Heady wine
A poem befalls upon us
God's sign
Heaven descends on earth......
Long nights of passion
Nine to nine
Climbing peaks unimagined
Finding our shrines
Heaven descends on earth.....
Completing each other
Love divine
Birth after birth after birth
Forever thine
Heaven descends on earth.....

A birthday poem for my wife
A star fell from heaven
Into my arms last night
As we walked arm in arm
Under a cloudy moonlight
Now heavens missing an angel
Because I’m holding her tight
You came into my life
Like the first ray of the sun
And I knew right away
That you were the one
There were no need for words
Just a small simple smile
My heart fluttered
With coming of the dawn
Because like the stars
I hoped you wouldn’t be gone
I wanted you there at my side
As each day fades to into night
I wanted you here
As my lover and wife
Your not going back
I won’t let you go
I love you too much
To ever let you go

Your favorite chair is vacant now...
No eager barks to greet me.
No softly padded paws to run
Ecstatically to meet me.
No coaxing rubs, no plaintive cry
I will never say it's time for feeding again.
I've put away your bowl, and all
The things you won't be needing;
But I will miss you little friend,
For I could never measure
The happiness you brought me,
The comfort and the pleasure.
And since God put you here to share
In earthly joy and sorrow;
I'm sure there'll be a place for you
In Heaven's bright tomorrow...
By,
Megan Dugan

I have desired to go
Where springs not fail,
To fields where flies no sharp and sided hail,
And a few lilies blow.
And I have asked to be
Where no storms come,
Where the green swell is in the havens dumb,
And out of the swing of the sea.

Take the Narrow Path
To Holy Trinity Turnpike
Turn righteous onto the Jesus Bridge
Go directly to Christ Crossing
Straight up to the Gates
Where eternity awaits

243
I've known a Heaven, like a Tent—
To wrap its shining Yards—
Pluck up its stakes, and disappear—
Without the sound of Boards
Or Rip of Nail—Or Carpenter—
But just the miles of Stare—
That signalize a Show's Retreat—
In North America—
No Trace—no Figment of the Thing
That dazzled, Yesterday,
No Ring—no Marvel—
Men, and Feats—
Dissolved as utterly—
As Bird's far Navigation
Discloses just a Hue—
A plash of Oars, a Gaiety—
Then swallowed up, of View.

'Marriages are made in heaven'
so say people in India
a good marriage can your life lengthen
it can be your ultimate good karma.
My marriage was made in hell
Bad karma from beginning to end
Kept me for years in a prison cell
Finally, I don't have to pretend.
My marriage was made in hell
no love or affection, felt like a bad spell
A bad marriage can ruin your life
For so many years, I had no life.
The hell marriage is now over
Promise I won't do it again, ever
I'm finally free from the shackles
Thought I'd be happy, but I see no sparkles.
All I'm left now with is wrinkles
My life's hard and full of struggles
Still, I find my freedom wonderful
And I will soon start feeling worthful.
Written on April 23,2007

388
Take your Heaven further on—
This—to Heaven divine Has gone—
Had You earlier blundered in
Possibly, e'en You had seen
An Eternity—put on—
Now—to ring a Door beyond
Is the utmost of Your Hand—
To the Skies—apologize—
Nearer to Your Courtesies
Than this Sufferer polite—
Dressed to meet You—
See—in White!

We were just little children
When our neighbour
That funny and clever mister
Who loved drinking beer
Died of too much drink.
I remember
How we loved him,
And the songs he sung
When he got drunk.
They were so strange
And outlandish
We loved them as well.
Mother replied then
That he went to heaven
Where there is more beer
To answer our question “why he left here? ”
Now,
I know she said that for our sake
And knowing that any answer we’d take
For I know in heaven there is no beer.
Is there?

A hero thinks of others before they think of themselves
A hero will die to protect
A hero can be of any age, any colour
A hero can be man, woman or child
A hero is courageous, loving and brave
A hero will never complain
A hero can be made in one act of compassion
Or years of tender loving care
Some hero's are remembered, whilst many are left forgotten
Hero's are angels in disguise, saving precious innocent lives
I dedicate this poem
To Pvt Steven Freund, Officer Kevin Tonn and all fallen heroes.

JAMES BRAIDWOOD: Died June 22, 1861.
NOT at the battle front,--writ of in story;
Not on the blazing wreck steering to glory;
Not while in martyr-pangs soul and flesh sever,
Died he--this Hero new; hero forever.
No pomp poetic crowned, no forms enchained him,
No friends applauding watched, no foes arraigned him:
Death found him there, without grandeur or beauty,
Only an honest man doing his duty:
Just a God-fearing man, simple and lowly,
Constant at kirk and hearth, kindly as holy:
Death found--and touched him with finger in flying:--
Lo! he rose up complete--hero undying.
Now, all men mourn for him, lovingly raise him
Up from his life obscure, chronicle, praise him;
Tell his last act, done midst peril appalling,
And the last word of cheer from his lips falling;
Follow in multitudes to his grave's portal;
Leave him there, buried in honor immortal.
So many a Hero walks unseen beside us,
Till comes the supreme stroke sent to divide us.
Then the LORD calls His own,--like this man, even,
Carried, Elijah-like, fire-winged, to heaven.

He died a hero
In a war of vague purpose
We really don't know
What it was for, I suppose.
An axis of evil?
A war on Terror-
But assessments reveal
Man's greed and error.
Was it about oil?
Who was the aggressor-
Did we make him recoil
Or were we the oppressor?
So where' s the victory
Where indeed is the end?
Death's the only reality
For the soldiers you send.
Familes now broken
Young and old lives lost,
Fathers and sons taken
Oh, at such a great cost!
'He died a hero'
Tell that to their children,
The pain of loss you don't know
As you plan a new war again.
....................... ................................................. ...........................
July 15,2009
Makati, Metro  Manila
Philippines

A simple being, hero in the classrooms,
Pen and lesson plans are his tools
In imparting knowledge to his learners
a father/ mother of almost sixty.
Teaching children of not his blood,
Nurturing then of knowledge flood,
Burning midnight candles,
Doesn't matter all,
their  achievements are his goal.
Addressing different learning styles,
With various teaching aids on files,
Preparing a friendly atmosphere,
Even none from his relatives care.
The forgotten hero in the classroom,
Toiling overtime forgetting time,
You wonder he is paid under time,
Job unrecognized, being late recognized.
Shock absorber of children's home dilemma,
Protector of children's right,
One lose footing is and err to faulty eyes,
the blame of one, an eraser of myriad works.
He is a hero, the invincible child's dream designer,
His music is the melodious children's laughter,
His destiny is to deal a challenge every year,
His joy is the star of diploma in each students' finger.

He has just turned fifty his fastest pace slow
He is not the man he was twenty years ago
When they used to toast him at the local pub
And he was the hero of the football club
But time it did not wait for him time it ticked on
And he can only talk now of his better days gone
When he was his football club's number 1 player
And he could run as fast as a wildborn hare
And though he has such good memories of the past
The Seasons came and went and time went so fast
Whilst yet not an old man his hair is quite gray
And clearly he has known a far better day
Two decades ago when his hair was dark brown
He was a big hero the toast of the town.

Jesus my Hero God & man
My Lord who’s never far
I salute You because I can
And who in truth You are
What so many consider odd
Contra what fools may say
There really is an awesome God
Through love to show The Way
The Way to love to endless bliss
Beyond this world of fears
To a life far greater than this
In a Land free of tears
He is my strength my trusted shield
My fortress and my sword
Now to the foe I’ll never yield
My Hero is The Lord
A precious God a wondrous King
A Hero born to free
Who’s praises forever I’ll sing
For saving such as me
With hands aloft with head held high
With eyes watching above
Together my Hero and I
Will show my neighbours love
Surely my Hero I salute
For giving me His hand
That I may bear my Saviour fruit
Towards His Promised Land
Perhaps these eyes may soon grow dim
I’ll trust who is my friend
Should I wonder seeing in Him?
My Hero to the end

The shells burst around me, my first battle has begun.
I could tell with metal flying this was not for fun.
I flopped in a hole that was tilled with rank muck,
surely I thought this would bring me luck.
Bullets came closer, soon I knew this burrow was not so hot.
I prayed, and I prayed God made them bad shots.
One tore my shoulder, I decided to flee,
crawling through the mud till a medic I could see.
A ticket to home this wound did impart.
Now I'm a vet and a hero with a purple heart.

From Meelin he came to Millstreet Town to die
For Ireland with a bullet in hie eye
And though more than eighty years since then have come and gone
The name of brave McCarthy still lives on.
He died in agony and painful pain,
His blood flowed down the flags of Millview Lane
If every Irishman were half so true
Then Ireland now would have the thirty two.
And though his only reward was the grave
McCarthy died for Ireland and died brave
He could have turned and ran away that night
But he stood and fought for what to him was right.
The Irish Republic is a part of Europe now
And our Ministers to Europe's big men bow
If he'd survived and stilll lived on today
'Twould be interesting what he'd have to say.
In Meelin stand a monument to the name
Of the man who brought upon that Village fame
To the noble hearted one of great renown
Who fought and died in famous Millstreet Town.

Unique friend imposible to find,
caring and loving for the ones who are,
The protector of broken hearts,
A true hero in my world.
Seems to be perfect for us,
but that's only what the eyes can see,
'cause my heart can see something else,
A vulnerable soul under it's shield.
My perfect hero has his sectrets,
Unknown for the ones who see with the eyes,
my hero is becoming weak with the time,
but he can't realize....
The mind inside my hero,
Keeps feelings hidden,
for the ones he must protect,
to trust, and not be afraid.
A red rose in between many white,
similar to the others, but never the same,
feeling lonely on the inside,
wanting to hide and not to face the truth.
An exquisite prey in the jungle,
afraid of the hungry predators,
keep trying not to make any noise,
just avoiding to be haunted.
I can see him with my heart,
and I see his fears and his pain,
I understand he is only being human,
I still love him the same,
and still he is my hero....

The heroes of the masses they live for their renown
And the masses create their heroes and then drag their heroes down
And the masses are unpredictable they change from day to day
And some of their heroes like the Autumn flowers are quick to fade away.
Yet there are millions of unsung heroes and they live on every street
And every day a hero I feel privileged to meet
True heroes male and female yet by the masses unsung
The World is full of heroes of heroes old and young.
Some heroes of the masses are arrogant and proud
And their egos over-swollen from the adulation of the crowd
But give me the unsung heroes who go their own quiet way
Who out of the kindness of their hearts perform one good deed every day.
Many heroes of the masses are not heroes to me
Though every day I walk the street some true hero I do see
Your hero is chauffeur driven and drinks the most expensive wine
And you can have your hero but your hero isn't mine.

Goe and count her better houres;
They more happie are than ours.
The day that gives her any blisse
Make it as long againe as tis:
The houre shee smiles in lett it bee
By thy art increas'd to three:
But if shee frowne on thee or mee
Know night is made by her not thee:
Bee swift in such an houre, and soon
Make it night though it bee noone:
Obey her tymes, who is the free
Fayre sun that governes thee and mee

God looked around his garden
And found an empty space;
He then looked down upon this earth
And saw your tired face.
He put His arms around you
And lifted you to rest;
God's garden must be beautiful,
He only takes the best.
He knew you were in pain,
He knew you might never
Get well upon this earth again.
He saw the road was getting rough
And the hills were hard to climb,
so He closed your weary eyelids
and whispered 'Peace be thine.'
It broke our hearts to lose you,
But you never went alone,
For part of us went with you
The day God called you home

COME, my little children, here are songs for you;
Some are short and some are long, and all, all are new.
You must learn to sing them very small and clear,
Very true to time and tune and pleasing to the ear.
Mark the note that rises, mark the notes that fall,
Mark the time when broken, and the swing of it all.
So when night is come, and you have gone to bed,
All the songs you love to sing shall echo in your head.

Sharers of a common country,
They had met in deadly strife;
Men who should have been as brothers
Madly sought each other's life.
In the silence of the even,
When the cannon's lips were dumb,
Thoughts of home and all its loved ones
To the soldier's heart would come.
On the margin of a river,
'Mid the evening's dews and damps,
Could be heard the sounds of music
Rising from two hostile camps.
One was singing of its section
Down in Dixie, Dixie's land,
And the other of the banner
Waved so long from strand to strand.
In the land where Dixie's ensign
Floated o'er the hopeful slave,
Rose the song that freedom's banner,
Starry-lighted, long might wave.
From the fields of strife and carnage,
Gentle thoughts began to roam,
And a tender strain of music
Rose with words of "Home, Sweet Home."
Then the hearts of strong men melted,
For amid our grief and sin
Still remains that "touch of nature,"
Telling us we all are kin.
In one grand but gentle chorus,
Floating to the starry dome,
Came the words that brought them nearer,
Words that told of "Home, Sweet Home."
For awhile, all strife forgotten,
They were only brothers then,
Joining in the sweet old chorus,
Not as soldiers, but as men.
Men whose hearts would flow together,
Though apart their feet might roam,
Found a tie they could not sever,
In the mem'ry of each home.
Never may the steps of carnage
Shake our land from shore to shore,
But may mother, home and Heaven,
Be our watchwords evermore.

944
I learned—at least—what Home could be—
How ignorant I had been
Of pretty ways of Covenant—
How awkward at the Hymn
Round our new Fireside—but for this—
This pattern—of the Way—
Whose Memory drowns me, like the Dip
Of a Celestial Sea—
What Mornings in our Garden—guessed—
What Bees—for us—to hum—
With only Birds to interrupt
The Ripple of our Theme—
And Task for Both—
When Play be done—
Your Problem—of the Brain—
And mine—some foolisher effect—
A Ruffle—or a Tune—
The Afternoons—Together spent—
And Twilight—in the Lanes—
Some ministry to poorer lives—
Seen poorest—thro' our gains—
And then Return—and Night—and Home—
And then away to You to pass—
A new—diviner—care—
Till Sunrise take us back to Scene—
Transmuted—Vivider—
This seems a Home—
And Home is not—
But what that Place could be—
Afflicts me—as a Setting Sun—
Where Dawn—knows how to be—

My parents have come home laughing
From the feast for Robert Burns, late, on foot;
They have leaned against graveyard walls,
Have bent double in the glittering frost,
Their bladders heavy with tea and ginger.
Burns, suspended in a drop, is flicked away
As they wipe their eyes, and is not offended.
What could offend him?Not the squeaking bagpipe
Nor the haggis which, when it was sliced, collapsed
In a meal of blood and oats
Nor the man who read a poem by Scott
As the audience hissed embarrassment
Nor the principal speaker whose topic,
"Burns' View of Crop Rotation," was intended
For farmers, who were not present,
Nor his attempt to cover this error, reciting
The only Burns poem all evening,
"Nine Inch Will Please a Lady," to thickening silence.
They drop their coats in the hall,
Mother first to the toilet, then Father,
And then stand giggling at the phone,
Debating a call to the States, decide no,
And the strength to keep laughing breaks
In a sigh.I hear, as their tired ribs
Press together, their bedroom door not close
And hear also a weeping from both of them
That seems not to be pain, and it comforts me.

7
The feet of people walking home
With gayer sandals go—
The Crocus— til she rises
The Vassal of the snow—
The lips at Hallelujah
Long years of practise bore
Til bye and bye these Bargemen
Walked singing on the shore.
Pearls are the Diver's farthings
Extorted from the Sea—
Pinions— the Seraph's wagon
Pedestrian once— as we—
Night is the morning's Canvas
Larceny— legacy—
Death, but our rapt attention
To Immortality.
My figures fail to tell me
How far the Village lies—
Whose peasants are the Angels—
Whose Cantons dot the skies—
My Classics veil their faces—
My faith that Dark adores—
Which from its solemn abbeys
Such ressurection pours.

All night a door floated down the river.
It tried to remember little incidents of pleasure
from its former life, like the time the lovers
leaned against it kissing for hours
and whispering those famous words.
Later, there were harsh words and a shoe
was thrown and the door was slammed.
Comings and goings by the thousands,
the early mornings and late nights, years, years.
O they've got big plans, they'll make a bundle.
The door was an island that swayed in its sleep.
The moon turned the doorknob just slightly,
burned its fingers and ran,
and still the door said nothing and slept.
At least that's what they like to say,
the little fishes and so on.
Far away, a bell rang, and then a shot was fired.

725
Where Thou art—that—is Home—
Cashmere—or Calvary—the same—
Degree—or Shame—
I scarce esteem Location's Name—
So I may Come—
What Thou dost—is Delight—
Bondage as Play—be sweet—
Imprisonment—Content—
And Sentence—Sacrament—
Just We two—meet—
Where Thou art not—is Woe—
Tho' Bands of Spices—row—
What Thou dost not—Despair—
Tho' Gabriel—praise me—Sire—

Dare to find hope
Dare to live your dreams
Find the hope to believe.
Dare to find the heart of hope
Dare to find your destiny
Live to find the hope for love.
Dare to believe in hope
Dare to catch it before it fades away…
Dare to find hope.

Even as things go downhill
And life becomes hell
Hope floats
Even as the world deserts you
And friends are few
Hope floats
Even as the only thing you have
Is a loneliness that is scary
Hope floats
Even as all seems lost and
Time remains a few grains of sand
Hope floats
Even as life seems beyond complaint
And strains of joy become faint
Hope floats
There may be nothing else to do
Than survive
And yet…as the self becomes distant
From the soul
There's a voice that says
Hope floats...

Hope Was Hoping
That Hopefully
It would be
Able to Fulfil
The Hopes Of
The Many Hopeful
Humans But
Hope Is What Still keeps
The Hope Going.

Hope
Sigh not for there is hope
Doubt not because it is there
Just seek it
Let thy eye wander far
Just touch it
Let thy hands lay softly
Just live it
Let thy heart fill the cold
And conquer
Laugh in joy not in cruelness
Cry always but not in pain
Sing tunes for the far
And Dance for the near
Wonder not
Because hope never dies

And some will have their lines
dying in the clasped palms
some unities would eventually unite
at Eternity
Inspired by Deane's Poem

Now let no charitable hope
Confuse my mind with images
Of eagle and of antelope:
I am by nature none of these.
I was, being human, born alone;
I am, being woman, hard beset;
I live by squeezing from a stone
What little nourishment I get.
In masks outrageous and austere
The years go by in single file;
But none has merited my fear,
And none has quite escaped my smile.

Delusive Hope! more transient than the ray
That leads pale twilight to her dusky bed,
O'er woodland glen, or breezy mountain's head,
Ling'ring to catch the parting sigh of day.
Hence with thy visionary charms, away!
Nor o'er my path the flow'rs of fancy spread;
Thy airy dreams on peaceful pillows shed,
And weave for thoughtless brows, a garland gay.
Farewell low vallies; dizzy cliffs, farewell!
Small vagrant rills that murmur as ye flow:
Dark bosom'd labyrinth and thorny dell;
The task be mine all pleasures to forego;
To hide, where meditation loves to dwell,
And feed my soul, with luxury of woe!

If the road of hope make you tired,
remember,
i exist,
you exist,
we will exist.

It is dark, no moon, no light
Just darkness, a starless sky
The wind blows, the waves break
A single firefly passes by
Soon the firefly is gone
Leaving me in the darkest of nights
The tiny fly made me anticipate
A sunrise with the finest of lights
Bachok, January 2012

Lured by the wall, and drawn
To stare below the roof,
Where pigeons nest aloof
From prowling cats and men,
I count the sash and bar
Secured to granite stone,
And note the daylight gone,
Supper and silence near.
Close to the wall inside,
Immured, empty of love,
A man I have wondered of
Lies patient, vacant-eye.
A month and a day ago
He stopped his car and found
A girl on the darkening ground,
And killed her in the snow.
Beside his cell, I am told,
Hardy perennial bums
Complain till twilight comes
For hunger and for cold.
They hardly know of a day
That saw their hunger pass.
Bred to the dark, their flesh
Peacefully withers away.
The man who sits alone,
He is the one for wonder,
Who sways his fingers under
The cleanly shaven chin,
Who sees, in the shaving mirror
Pinned to the barren wall,
The uprooted ghost of all:
The simple, easy terror.
Caught between sky and earth,
Poor stupid animal,
Stripped naked to the wall,
He saw the blundered birth
Of daemons beyond sound.
Sick of the dark, he rose
For love, and now he goes
Back to the broken ground.
Now, as he grips the chain
And holds the wall, to bear
What no man ever bore,
He hears the bums complain;
But I mourn no soul but his,
Not even the bums who die,
Nor the homely girl whose cry
Crumbled his pleading kiss.

In silent night when rest I took
For sorrow near I did not look
I waked was with thund'ring noise
And piteous shrieks of dreadful voice.
That fearful sound of "Fire!" and "Fire!"
Let no man know is my desire.
I, starting up, the light did spy,
And to my God my heart did cry
To strengthen me in my distress
And not to leave me succorless.
Then, coming out, beheld a space
The flame consume my dwelling place.
And when I could no longer look,
I blest His name that gave and took,
That laid my goods now in the dust.
Yea, so it was, and so 'twas just.
It was His own, it was not mine,
Far be it that I should repine;
He might of all justly bereft
But yet sufficient for us left.
When by the ruins oft I past
My sorrowing eyes aside did cast,
And here and there the places spy
Where oft I sat and long did lie:
Here stood that trunk, and there that chest,
There lay that store I counted best.
My pleasant things in ashes lie,
And them behold no more shall I.
Under thy roof no guest shall sit,
Nor at thy table eat a bit.
No pleasant tale shall e'er be told,
Nor things recounted done of old.
No candle e'er shall shine in thee,
Nor bridegroom's voice e'er heard shall be.
In silence ever shall thou lie,
Adieu, Adieu, all's vanity.
Then straight I 'gin my heart to chide,
And did thy wealth on earth abide?
Didst fix thy hope on mold'ring dust?
The arm of flesh didst make thy trust?
Raise up thy thoughts above the sky
That dunghill mists away may fly.
Thou hast an house on high erect,
Framed by that mighty Architect,
With glory richly furnished,
Stands permanent though this be fled.
It's purchased and paid for too
By Him who hath enough to do.
A price so vast as is unknown
Yet by His gift is made thine own;
There's wealth enough, I need no more,
Farewell, my pelf, farewell my store.
The world no longer let me love,
My hope and treasure lies above.

In the burned house I am eating breakfast.
You understand: there is no house, there is no breakfast,
yet here I am.
The spoon which was melted scrapes against
the bowl which was melted also.
No one else is around.
Where have they gone to, brother and sister,
mother and father? Off along the shore,
perhaps. Their clothes are still on the hangers,
their dishes piled beside the sink,
which is beside the woodstove
with its grate and sooty kettle,
every detail clear,
tin cup and rippled mirror.
The day is bright and songless,
the lake is blue, the forest watchful.
In the east a bank of cloud
rises up silently like dark bread.
I can see the swirls in the oilcloth,
I can see the flaws in the glass,
those flares where the sun hits them.
I can't see my own arms and legs
or know if this is a trap or blessing,
finding myself back here, where everything
in this house has long been over,
kettle and mirror, spoon and bowl,
including my own body,
including the body I had then,
including the body I have now
as I sit at this morning table, alone and happy,
bare child's feet on the scorched floorboards
(I can almost see)
in my burning clothes, the thin green shorts
and grubby yellow T-shirt
holding my cindery, non-existent,
radiant flesh. Incandescent.

All ye good people, afar and near,
To my request pray lend an ear;
I advise you all without delay to go
And see the Fair Maid's House - it is a rare show.
Some of the chairs there are very grand,
They have been cut and carved by a skilful hand;
And kings, perchance, if fhe truth were told,
Have sat on them in days of old.
King James the First of Scotland was murdered there,
And his cries for mercy rent the air.
But the Highland robbers only laughed at him,
And murdered him in the dungeon and thought if no sin.
Then there's an ancient shrine upstairs,
Where the Monks and Saints said their prayers,
To the Holy Virgin, be it told;
And the house, it is said, is six hundred years old.
The old cruisie lamps are there to be seen,
Which let the monks see to write from their sheen,
Arld if the walls could speak, they could tell a fearful tale,
Which would make the people's cheeks turn pale.
Then there's an old claymore dug up from Culloden Moor,
Which in its time shed innocent blood, I am sure,
If not at Culloden Moor, some other place,
Which no doubt the truth of it history might trace.
The interior of the house is magnificent to be seen,
And the wood panelling, I'm sure, would please the Queen;
And the old fire-place, with its big fire,
Is all that visitors could desire.
Then there's a ring in a big stone near by the door,
Where gentlemen tethered their horses in days of yore;
And on the staircase door there's a firling pin
For making a rattling noise when anyone wanted in.
The mistress of the house is very kind,
A more affable woman would be herd to find;
And to visitors she is very good,
And well versed in history, be it understood.

Over the darkened city, the city of towers,
The city of a thousand gates,
Over the gleaming terraced roofs, the huddled towers,
Over a somnolent whisper of loves and hates,
The slow wind flows, drearily streams and falls,
With a mournful sound down rain-dark walls.
On one side purples the lustrous dusk of the sea,
And dreams in white at the city's feet;
On one side sleep the plains, with heaped-up hills.
Oaks and beeches whisper in rings about it.
Above the trees are towers where dread bells beat.
The fisherman draws his streaming net from the sea
And sails toward the far-off city, that seems
Like one vague tower.
The dark bow plunges to foam on blue-black waves,
And shrill rain seethes like a ghostly music about him
In a quiet shower.
Rain with a shrill sings on the lapsing waves;
Rain thrills over the roofs again;
Like a shadow of shifting silver it crosses the city;
The lamps in the streets are streamed with rain;
And sparrows complain beneath deep eaves,
And among whirled leaves
The sea-gulls, blowing from tower to lower tower,
From wall to remoter wall,
Skim with the driven rain to the rising sea-sound
And close grey wings and fall . . .
. . . Hearing great rain above me, I now remember
A girl who stood by the door and shut her eyes:
Her pale cheeks glistened with rain, she stood and shivered.
Into a forest of silver she vanished slowly . . .
Voices about me rise . . .
Voices clear and silvery, voices of raindrops,—
'We struck with silver claws, we struck her down.
We are the ghosts of the singing furies . . . '
A chorus of elfin voices blowing about me
Weaves to a babel of sound.  Each cries a secret.
I run among them, reach out vain hands, and drown.
'I am the one who stood beside you and smiled,
Thinking your face so strangely young . . . '
'I am the one who loved you but did not dare.'
'I am the one you followed through crowded streets,
The one who escaped you, the one with red-gleamed hair.'
'I am the one you saw to-day, who fell
Senseless before you, hearing a certain bell:
A bell that broke great memories in my brain.'
'I am the one who passed unnoticed before you,
Invisible, in a cloud of secret pain.'
'I am the one who suddenly cried, beholding
The face of a certain man on the dazzling screen.
They wrote me that he was dead.  It was long ago.
I walked in the streets for a long while, hearing nothing,
And returned to see it again.  And it was so.'
Weave, weave, weave, you streaks of rain!
I am dissolved and woven again . . .
Thousands of faces rise and vanish before me.
Thousands of voices weave in the rain.
'I am the one who rode beside you, blinking
At a dazzle of golden lights.
Tempests of music swept me: I was thinking
Of the gorgeous promise of certain nights:
Of the woman who suddenly smiled at me this day,
Smiled in a certain delicious sidelong way,
And turned, as she reached the door,
To smile once more . . .
Her hands are whiter than snow on midnight water.
Her throat is golden and full of golden laughter,
Her eyes are strange as the stealth of the moon
On a night in June . . .
She runs among whistling leaves; I hurry after;
She dances in dreams over white-waved water;
Her body is white and fragrant and cool,
Magnolia petals that float on a white-starred pool . . .
I have dreamed of her, dreaming for many nights
Of a broken music and golden lights,
Of broken webs of silver, heavily falling
Between my hands and their white desire:
And dark-leaved boughs, edged with a golden radiance,
Dipping to screen a fire . . .
I dream that I walk with her beneath high trees,
But as I lean to kiss her face,
She is blown aloft on wind, I catch at leaves,
And run in a moonless place;
And I hear a crashing of terrible rocks flung down,
And shattering trees and cracking walls,
And a net of intense white flame roars over the town,
And someone cries; and darkness falls . . .
But now she has leaned and smiled at me,
My veins are afire with music,
Her eyes have kissed me, my body is turned to light;
I shall dream to her secret heart tonight . . . '
He rises and moves away, he says no word,
He folds his evening paper and turns away;
I rush through the dark with rows of lamplit faces;
Fire bells peal, and some of us turn to listen,
And some sit motionless in their accustomed places.
Cold rain lashes the car-roof, scurries in gusts,
Streams down the windows in waves and ripples of lustre;
The lamps in the streets are distorted and strange.
Someone takes his watch from his pocket and yawns.
One peers out in the night for the place to change.
Rain . . . rain . . . rain . . . we are buried in rain,
It will rain forever, the swift wheels hiss through water,
Pale sheets of water gleam in the windy street.
The pealing of bells is lost in a drive of rain-drops.
Remote and hurried the great bells beat.
'I am the one whom life so shrewdly betrayed,
Misfortune dogs me, it always hunted me down.
And to-day the woman I love lies dead.
I gave her roses, a ring with opals;
These hands have touched her head.
'I bound her to me in all soft ways,
I bound her to me in a net of days,
Yet now she has gone in silence and said no word.
How can we face these dazzling things, I ask you?
There is no use: we cry: and are not heard.
'They cover a body with roses . . . I shall not see it . . .
Must one return to the lifeless walls of a city
Whose soul is charred by fire? . . . '
His eyes are closed, his lips press tightly together.
Wheels hiss beneath us.  He yields us our desire.
'No, do not stare so—he is weak with grief,
He cannot face you, he turns his eyes aside;
He is confused with pain.
I suffered this.  I know.  It was long ago . . .
He closes his eyes and drowns in death again.'
The wind hurls blows at the rain-starred glistening windows,
The wind shrills down from the half-seen walls.
We flow on the mournful wind in a dream of dying;
And at last a silence falls.

As evening falls,
And the yellow lights leap one by one
Along high walls;
And along black streets that glisten as if with rain,
The muted city seems
Like one in a restless sleep, who lies and dreams
Of vague desires, and memories, and half-forgotten pain . . .
Along dark veins, like lights the quick dreams run,
Flash, are extinguished, flash again,
To mingle and glow at last in the enormous brain
And die away . . .
As evening falls,
A dream dissolves these insubstantial walls,—
A myriad secretly gliding lights lie bare . . .
The lovers rise, the harlot combs her hair,
The dead man's face grows blue in the dizzy lamplight,
The watchman climbs the stair . . .
The bank defaulter leers at a chaos of figures,
And runs among them, and is beaten down;
The sick man coughs and hears the chisels ringing;
The tired clown
Sees the enormous crowd, a million faces,
Motionless in their places,
Ready to laugh, and seize, and crush and tear . . .
The dancer smooths her hair,
Laces her golden slippers, and runs through the door
To dance once more,
Hearing swift music like an enchantment rise,
Feeling the praise of a thousand eyes.
As darkness falls
The walls grow luminous and warm, the walls
Tremble and glow with the lives within them moving,
Moving like music, secret and rich and warm.
How shall we live tonight?  Where shall we turn?
To what new light or darkness yearn?
A thousand winding stairs lead down before us;
And one by one in myriads we descend
By lamplit flowered walls, long balustrades,
Through half-lit halls which reach no end.

'This envelope you say has something in it
Which once belonged to your dead son—or something
He knew, was fond of?  Something he remembers?—
The soul flies far, and we can only call it
By things like these . . . a photograph, a letter,
Ribbon, or charm, or watch . . . '
. . .  Wind flows softly, the long slow even wind,
Over the low roofs white with snow;
Wind blows, bearing cold clouds over the ocean,
One by one they melt and flow,—
Streaming one by one over trees and towers,
Coiling and gleaming in shafts of sun;
Wind flows, bearing clouds; the hurrying shadows
Flow under them one by one . . .
' . . . A spirit darkens before me . . . it is the spirit
Which in the flesh you called your son . . . A spirit
Young and strong and beautiful . . .
He says that he is happy, is much honored;
Forgives and is forgiven . . . rain and wind
Do not perplex him . . . storm and dust forgotten . .
The glittering wheels in wheels of time are broken
And laid aside . . . '
'Ask him why he did the thing he did!'
'He is unhappy.  This thing, he says, transcends you:
Dust cannot hold what shines beyond the dust . . .
What seems calamity is less than a sigh;
What seems disgrace is nothing.'
'Ask him if the one he hurt is there,
And if she loves him still!'
'He tells you she is there, and loves him still,—
Not as she did, but as all spirits love . . .
A cloud of spirits has gathered about him.
They praise him and call him, they do him honor;
He is more beautiful, he shines upon them.'
. . .  Wind flows softly, the long deep tremulous wind,
Over the low roofs white with snow . . .
Wind flows, bearing dreams; they gather and vanish,
One by one they sing and flow;
Over the outstretched lands of days remembered,
Over remembered tower and wall,
One by one they gather and talk in the darkness,
Rise and glimmer and fall . . .
'Ask him why he did the thing he did!
He knows I will understand!'
'It is too late:
He will not hear me: I have lost my power.'
'Three times I've asked him!  He will never tell me.
God have mercy upon him.  I will ask no more.'

Whenever I walk to Suffern along the Erie track
I go by a poor old farmhouse with its shingles broken and black.
I suppose I've passed it a hundred times, but I always stop for a minute
And look at the house, the tragic house, the house with nobody in it.
I never have seen a haunted house, but I hear there are such things;
That they hold the talk of spirits, their mirth and sorrowings.
I know this house isn't haunted, and I wish it were, I do;
For it wouldn't be so lonely if it had a ghost or two.
This house on the road to Suffern needs a dozen panes of glass,
And somebody ought to weed the walk and take a scythe to the grass.
It needs new paint and shingles, and the vines should be trimmed and tied;
But what it needs the most of all is some people living inside.
If I had a lot of money and all my debts were paid
I'd put a gang of men to work with brush and saw and spade.
I'd buy that place and fix it up the way it used to be
And I'd find some people who wanted a home and give it to them free.
Now, a new house standing empty, with staring window and door,
Looks idle, perhaps, and foolish, like a hat on its block in the store.
But there's nothing mournful about it; it cannot be sad and lone
For the lack of something within it that it has never known.
But a house that has done what a house should do,
a house that has sheltered life,
That has put its loving wooden arms around a man and his wife,
A house that has echoed a baby's laugh and held up his stumbling feet,
Is the saddest sight, when it's left alone, that ever your eyes could meet.
So whenever I go to Suffern along the Erie track
I never go by the empty house without stopping and looking back,
Yet it hurts me to look at the crumbling roof and the shutters fallen apart,
For I can't help thinking the poor old house is a house with a broken heart.

In silent night when rest I took,
For sorrow near I did not look,
I waken'd was with thund'ring noise
And piteous shrieks of dreadful voice.
That fearful sound of 'fire' and 'fire,'
Let no man know is my Desire.
I starting up, the light did spy,
And to my God my heart did cry
To straighten me in my Distress
And not to leave me succourless.
Then coming out, behold a space
The flame consume my dwelling place.
And when I could no longer look,
I blest his grace that gave and took,
That laid my goods now in the dust.
Yea, so it was, and so 'twas just.
It was his own; it was not mine.
Far be it that I should repine,
He might of all justly bereft
But yet sufficient for us left.
When by the Ruins oft I past
My sorrowing eyes aside did cast
And here and there the places spy
Where oft I sate and long did lie.
Here stood that Trunk, and there that chest,
There lay that store I counted best,
My pleasant things in ashes lie
And them behold no more shall I.
Under the roof no guest shall sit,
Nor at thy Table eat a bit.
No pleasant talk shall 'ere be told
Nor things recounted done of old.
No Candle 'ere shall shine in Thee,
Nor bridegroom's voice ere heard shall bee.
In silence ever shalt thou lie.
Adieu, Adieu, All's Vanity.
Then straight I 'gin my heart to chide:
And did thy wealth on earth abide,
Didst fix thy hope on mouldring dust,
The arm of flesh didst make thy trust?
Raise up thy thoughts above the sky
That dunghill mists away may fly.
Thou hast a house on high erect
Fram'd by that mighty Architect,
With glory richly furnished
Stands permanent, though this be fled.
It's purchased and paid for too
By him who hath enough to do.
A price so vast as is unknown,
Yet by his gift is made thine own.
There's wealth enough; I need no more.
Farewell, my pelf; farewell, my store.
The world no longer let me love;
My hope and Treasure lies above.

All married men want to be called a good husband
A good husband is a decent husband
Mr. Husband what you done to deserve this decency?
Has your wife ever referred to you as her good husband?
It is known that the eyes cannot see itself
Unless by reflection. Have you ever asked
Your wife for a performance appraisal
Honey, how did I perform last year?
On a scale of one to ten, one for very poor
Ten for excellent, how did I perform?
Your wife may think you are now on new drugs
If you receive less than six, you need to
Start fence mending before it is too late
A good husband sees his wife as his friend
A nice husband treats his wife as his lover
A decent husband regards his wife as a soul-mate
You should anticipate what your wife
Will need before she makes any request
By the way, have you ever bought a gift
For your wife without an occasion?
Do you have to wait for her birthday?
To inform her that she is very special to you?
Do you have to wait for your wedding anniversary?
To tell her that she is the best thing in your life
When last did you talk to your wife in-laws?
When last did you visit your wife in-laws?
What have you done to be called a good husband?
Ask for performance appraisal on a regular basis
Remember, if you make your wife happy
You will get happiness in return

Think not this paper comes with vain pretense
To move your pity, or to mourn th'offense.
Too well I know that hard obdurate heart;
No softening mercy there will take my part,
Nor can a woman's arguments prevail,
When even your patron's wise example fails.
But this last privilege I still retain;
Th'oppressed and injured always may complain.
Too, too severely laws of honor bind
The weak submissive sex of womankind.
If sighs have gained or force compelled our hand,
Deceived by art, or urged by stern command,
Whatever motive binds the fatal tie,
The judging world expects our constancy.
Just heaven! (for sure in heaven does justice reign,
Though tricks below that sacred name profane)
To you appealing I submit my cause,
Nor fear a judgment from impartial laws.
All bargains but conditional are made;
The purchase void, the creditor unpaid;
Defrauded servants are from service free;
A wounded slave regains his liberty.
For wives ill used no remedy remains,
To daily racks condemned, and to eternal chains.
From whence is this unjust distinction grown?
Are we not formed with passions like your own?
Nature with equal fire our souls endued,
Our minds as haughty, and as warm our blood;
O'er the wide world your pleasures you pursue,
The change is justified by something new;
But we must sigh in silence -- and be true.
Our sex's weakness you expose and blame
(Of every prattling fop the common theme).
Yet from this weakness you suppose is due
Sublimer virtue than your Cato knew.
Had heaven designed us trials so severe,
It would have formed our tempers then to bear.
And I have borne (oh what have I not borne!)
The pang of jealousy, the insults of scorn.
Wearied at length, I from your sight remove,
And place my future hopes in secret love.
In the gay bloom of glowing youth retired,
I quit the woman's joy to be admired,
With that small pension your hard heart allows,
Renounce your fortune, and release your vows.
To custom (though unjust) so much is due;
I hide my frailty from the public view.
My conscience clear, yet sensible of shame,
My life I hazard, to preserve my fame.
And I prefer this low inglorious state
To vile dependence on the thing I hate --
But you pursue me to this last retreat.
Dragged into light, my tender crime is shown
And every circumstance of fondness known.
Beneath the shelter of the law you stand,
And urge my ruin with a cruel hand,
While to my fault thus rigidly severe,
Tamely submissive to the man you fear.
This wretched outcast, this abandoned wife,
Has yet this joy to sweeten shameful life:
By your mean conduct, infamously loose,
You are at once my accuser and excuse.
Let me be damned by the censorious prude
(stupidly dull, or spiritually lewd),
My hapless case will surely pity find
From every just and reasonable mind.
When to the final sentence I submit,
The lips condemn me, but their souls acquit.
No more my husband, to your pleasures go,
The sweets of your recovered freedom know.
Go: court the brittle friendship of the great,
Smile at his board, or at his levee wait;
And when dismissed, to madam's toilet fly,
More than her chambermaids, or glasses, lie,
Tell her how young she looks, how heavenly fair,
Admire the lilies and the roses there.
Your high ambition may be gratified,
Some cousin of her own be made your bride,
And you the father of a glorious race
Endowed with Ch------l's strength and Low---r's face.

Husband and Wife relationship is like mind and heart association,
Less co-ordination between both;  will lead to disconnection,
Tolerance is bondage; intolerance may lead to extrication,
Understanding of both sides is very important for relation.
Marriage is a  distress; when there is misinterpretation,
To lead a society happily; relationship is a foundation,
Broken relationship is equivalent to misconception,
Better to separate instead of suffering in confusion.

For better or for worse
I will be your husband
But of you I quietly demand
Obedience and respect
I am the man of house
I am the man who's intellect
For a just cause
I will be your husband
I expect of you no fuss
When I have the last say
Of how we are to operate
each and everyday especially today
Copyright 2005 - Sylvia Chidi

You're my husband
What I'll never meet
You're my husband
What I'll neve see close to me
You're my husband
With whom I'll never speak
The nicest words for you
Will never be heard
My tender caress
Will never be felt
My love to You will shine in dark
And no one will feel it
'Cause I want to give it
Only for you, my honey
You'll never call me your baby
No one tender word for me
I'll never read from your lips
Could You tell me
Why is it so?

The persons who are under make up
as husband and wife in a fake drama,
If they don't do their duty perfectly
as per their character, it gives rise to ridicule!
known to all in their world,
While made them as husband and wife in reality;
if they don't develop good relationship,
the God who is handling the sportive drama
in this universe shall subject them
to hardship and make them feel grief!

He tells you when you've got on
too much lipstick
And helps you with your girdle
when your hips stick.

My life, My body is now shared,
But, it seems so fair,
As marriage made us pair,
Even though I dont always tell you,
I Love You,
Glad am married to you,
At times we are rough,
At times we are soft,
But, you always have a big heart,
That makes our love grow stronger,
I am lucky to be part of your life,
I am honoured to be your wife,
You shared my good times,
And at bad times stood like a rock,
I dream about our sweet yesterdays,
And our beautiful tommorow.
Never thought I could be loved so much,
But, you made me feel,
Year after year.
Everyday, Now I pray,
For the every new life,
I remain your wife.

you seem so tired
you seem so exhausted
your not wanting steps
are clearly visible,
it makes me realize
things are not right
in our beautiful relationship;
your stupid'talks
your nonstop' songs
your gesture of love'
your kiss
your hugs-
were appreciated every time
it makes me smile;
my mood swings to right
honey! what has changed you and your mind?
honey! why you have become so quiet?

sun- - dark
moon- - pale
dress- - mute
code- - no word
system- - close
open- - -shut
feed- - mark
ex- - -inhale
no- - -shoot
mode- - unheard
these- - those
yes- - -but
water- - ark
fin- - whale
swim- - nude
back- - forward
choose- - chose
drop-lifeless-hut

IDENTITY CRISIS
I took birth as daughter,
My  identity was of a daughter,
Then i became beloved and wife,
I framed myself in a house,
Then i became a mother,
I am in a fix,
To think,
About my real identity

This is to the motherland,
Where I am born.
This is to the teacher,
Who taught me nothing.
This is to my lover,
Who turned away from me.
Many are there to address,
Very few to notice.
What have you taught me?
Why the hell you came in?
Why did I even open my eyes mother!
Hybridity, Modernization, Temporary.
Yes, You all have lost me,
Lost your identity in my life.
Dedicated to the ones who have lost their identity.
Thala Abhimanyu Kumar
Dated: 25/08/2019

Identity please security do ask
As you show them your identity pass
They look at it letting you through
But its that plastic card really you
That snapshot image of your face
Is not what your identity makes
Your true Identity is much more complex
Something a mere image doesn’t reflects
The way you care or feel is part of you
Your inner soul we hope keeps you true
Perhaps you have a real gift
Or maybe others spirits you do lift
It’s the way you laugh and joke
Or the way you give others hope
Perhaps its that you fight so hard
Or that no one can ever beat u at cards
Or that you are a great cook
Identity is not just how you do look
Its how you act think what you find true
That’s the identity of being you

I  lOST  MY  IDENTITY
Believe me! I lost entity of my own shadow
When I followed shadows of so - called greats.
Sometimes Nietzsche ruled my fresh mind
Sometime Jesus appeared to rectify them.
I intend to perceive myself as Buddha
But my behaviour favoured Hitler then.
Do their souls embody inside me?
Or my own soul is dead alive then
I gaze at my own plain mirror
I can't find reflection of mine.
I'm searching myself inside me
But not capable to find out yet.
Shall I manage for meditation
Or need to seek for revolution.
I need to visualise myself inside me
To establish  myself as an unique me.
I need to preserve my fresh image
To ensure my own precious identity.

The thief of my Identity
To my Friends and Family
My true Identity
Is all that makes me
I stole my identity
My personality
What I live for, What I breath for
What I'd fight for, what I'd die for
If not for my soul,
I would be lost once again
For my True Identity has fled me
Fled me for another
It is the dancing shadow you play with,
The beauty you can see in yourself,
And the hostility.
It wants to see you suffer,
It is most content, when you are in despair.
When I can look into my self
and find the real Identity of my inner self,
Until then I will not blame anyone
for my misfortune

Who am I,
What my identity,
where my home?

inser an attitude
into between
all the association
labels
questions
question marks?
the knowing
knowing
knowing minds
reference by places
special honoured dates
with gifts gifts
gifts
given wanted?
what price?
paid
received
ownership
ritu als
blood ties
friends
embraced
welcomed
em otion staged
on occasions
dictated traditions
circle patches
neatly date catalogues
life timed sequences
celebrating time shifts
lens cap on
lens cap off
click click click
pose posers
not to pose
life models
staged settings
feelings
appreciations
fing ertips
hands
footprints
leave marks
indelible
or spotlights
face figure clothes
shadow mirrors
object selections
ownership
barcodes
choice selects
barcode on spot foreheads
barcode on back of necks
barcode on tattoo forearms
scan earmarked
final sales solutions
buy sell life rapes
rise free bird blood group super loop hawks
eagles fly free in perfect inconsistencies
evaded question identity perception minefields
scan earmarked
final solutions
nazi life rapes
waffen SS blood tattoos
SS blood group tattoos
small black ink tattoos
located on underside
of left arm near armpit
20 cm above the elbow
blood type soldier's
early lettering Gothic-style
later inked Latin-style
blood transfusions
wounded unconscious
missing dog tags
war games crimes ended
catch beastly black rats
war crimes blood riddled
war atrocities ignored ended
Allies keen to catch scapegoats
Waffen-SS members desired
an accounting to be rendered
judgement trial vengeance selections
Waffen-SS type witch hunted
due to hideous volume of war crimes
committed by fanatical Waffen-SS units
post-war showcase Nuremberg Trials
Waffen-SS are collectively branded
a criminal organization condemned
due to Nazi Party loyalty connections
involvement documented war crimes
waffen SS blood group tattoos
used to accurately identify SS members
'prima facie' evidence established
as part of the Waffen-SS leading
to potential arrest prosecutions
leading to Waffen-SS prosecutions
occasionally war crimes executions
gallows appointed hangman's noose
'prima facie' on first encounter first
blush at first sight Waffen-SS identities
are self evident legally fact established
but blood group super loop hawks
eagles fly free in perfect inconsistencies
not all Waffen-SS had blood tattoos
some men were away on tattoo days
men transferred from other branches
of military training to Waffen-SS
men transferred from the Allgemeine SS
the 'General' or non-military SS
did not receive Waffen-SS blood tattoos
increasingly after 1943 Waffen-SS
recruits did not receive blood tattoos
by 1945 few accept blood tattoos
non-SS wounded Wehrmacht soldiers
treated in SS hospitals were blood tattooed
post war Waffen-SS falsely categorized
rise free blood group super loop hawks
eagles fly free in perfect inconsistencies
SS veterans tattoo less detection escaped
SS escapees important who capture evaded
Auschwitz Angel of Death Josef Mengele
Adolf Eichmann's 'best man' Alois Brunner
both ghost escaped lacking SS blood tattoos
blood group super loop nasty heinous vultures
evaded question identity perception minefields
Copyright © Terence George Craddock

With identity card
I am moving here and there
You are my identity card
Without you no sky no bird.

Secrets hidden well,
To cover up the shame,
Memories suppressed inside,
To bring relief from the pain.
Nightmares constantly present,
To remind that the past is real,
Sickness retching the body,
To release the disgust she feel.
Pasts that still haunt,
Both at day and by night,
Lives forever altered,
By something far from right.
Child left alone,
Trying once again to be whole,
This unforgivable devastation,
Forever tormenting her soul.
Many questions yet unanswered,
She still sits and wonder why,
Was there a reason, a purpose,
To the cause of her wanting to die?

Heart coalesces in unison longing love
distinction impulses unconsciousness
firmament loses to black hole redeeming
as river meanders to meld into oblivion.
attraction refutes falling from gravity,
anima, merges into promise of divinity,
gloss of innocence inflicts asymmetry
laws of truth guide universe onto eternity.
Light reflects to form image in mirror
genesis accords possibility to acknowledge
reality is ground of all creations to happen
as things happen to happen by inevitability.

Lay me down tonight.
Don't mourn for my passing.
I sold my soul to evade the light,
There's nothing left worth redeeming.
I remember a time,
Smiling child, picture of perfection.
In joyous resplendence, you danced.
Born in day,
But even your light wasted away.
Lay me to rest tonight.
Don't weep for my losses,
I sold my heart to escape the pain,
There's nothing left of me to save.
I remember a time,
Foolish child, see what befalls the flawed?
In the absence of light, you changed.
Born in day,
But reality eroded your heart away.
Hide me away tonight.
Don't beg for my forgiveness,
I took my life to escape from you,
Theres nothing left of me
Tonight.

It’s my all time favorite repose-compartment
Open the pages to see my ingenuous chapters
Wonder why I have lost my innocence supplement
Once, that stance was part and parcel of all my matters!
Excavation can help me, I take this dig.
Cradle to grade one, infancy free verse at recite
From there a saga of tutoring, a phase of delight
Forever forgiven, naive menaces, a period of elite
It’s time then society norms dictate man’s plight.
Exclusive shots of this dig.
Its now, the virtue lost from face and it’s struck at throat
Costless thrillers, pastime, under the vigilant scanners
Salt water couldn’t heal the pain, but it did pivot
As a proof of living, had to hold pre-printed banners.
Extensive damage, reports my dig.
Discolored utterances played havoc, gullet to blame
Etiquette pushed into belly to help in digestion claim
Fed with indigestible cereals, system hanged in shame
The so called Innocence departed under the foot into the drain.
Exhibit of my dig –‘Innocence Lost’.
-vidi-
17/04/2009

The waiting, the suspence
Everybody is feeling so tense.
Accused and blamed
All emotion has enflamed.
Worry and upset
You are the suspect.
Time and space
In that moment or place.
Comfort and support
Someone there at every thought.
Now its all done
Break a smile your not the one.
Rhys Ullah

Piping down the valleys wild,
Piping songs of pleasant glee,
On a cloud I saw a child,
And he laughing said to me:
'Pipe a song about a Lamb!'
So I piped with merry cheer.
'Piper, pipe that song again;'
So I piped: he wept to hear.
'Drop thy pipe, thy happy pipe;
Sing thy songs of happy cheer:!'
So I sang the same again,
While he wept with joy to hear.
'Piper, sit thee down and write
In a book, that all may read.'
So he vanish'd from my sight;
And I pluck'd a hollow reed,
And I made a rural pen,
And I stain'd the water clear,
And I wrote my happy songs
Every child may joy to hear.

When we talked you promised
That you would never leave
Then I told you of the demons
And how they made me bleed
I made you promise crazy things
But your words weren’t enough
I couldn’t believe you loved me
I thought to love me was to tough
When I cry about my past
And say that I’m ashamed
I know that I am the one
Who is to be blamed
Then you hold me tight
And say that it’s okay
So I cry for my lack of innocence
And the things I couldn’t give away
When I can’t sleep through the night
And the memories start to hurt too much
I burn myself and tell you,
Because you’re the only one I trust
You say your better then you’re past
You tell me that I’m strong
You say that I’m the love of your life
But if you only knew
The kind of thoughts I think
And what I used to do
You tell me that it doesn’t matter
And that you love me anyway
So I cry for my stolen innocence
And the things I shouldn’t have given away
They all said my body lacked beauty
And it made my confidence fall apart
But when I let you look
You marveled at me like a work of art
I then held you close just to say
Remember this moment and don’t let it fade
So I cry for my question mark innocence
And the things I wish I gave away
I never felt a thing
Before I gave you my heart
And when those bad memories won’t fade
And I feel like I’ll fall apart
You will tell me you love me so
Then as you wrap your arms around me
And say you’ll never let me go
I know you really love me,
And you’ll keep me safe from harm
You know I’ve been hurt,
And abused in every kind of way
So I cry for my loss of innocence
And the things I gave away

The Innocence of another time
Is lost forever-
The other time is lost forever-
That's the way life is
We try to hold on to it and cannot-
We remember it
And cannot bring it back.

The innocence of childhood it is a marvellous thing
And all children are untainted in their life's early Spring
But by the time they've reached their teens their innocence they've lost
And the experience that we gain from age always comes at a cost.
When children lose their innocence they lose their gift of joy
The joy that comes from innocence in every young girl and boy
Compared to us young children see life quite differently
Of the guilt of corruption they are completely free.
I have such happy memories of when I was a boy
My childhood years were happy years but time just seemed to fly
And the experience that I've gained from life it came at a great cost
For I lost something beautiful when innocence I lost.

G-ood morning sunshine
L-ets the dawn break with glee;
A-iming to make a beautiful
D-ay of mirth and ecstasy.
Y-ear added to the lady is something to remember;
S-adness should step back to make her feel glad and better.
M-oonlight shadows have faded,
A-fter the night walks away;
E-very twenty-second January, she celebrates her birthday.

When, to despoil my native France,
With flaming torch and cruel sword
And boisterous drums her foeman comes,
I curse him and his vandal horde!
Yet, what avail accrues to her,
If we assume the garb of woe?
Let's merry be,--in laughter we
May rescue somewhat from the foe!
Ah, many a brave man trembles now.
I (coward!) show no sign of fear;
When Bacchus sends his blessing, friends,
I drown my panic in his cheer.
Come, gather round my humble board,
And let the sparkling wassail flow,--
Chuckling to think, the while you drink,
"This much we rescue from the foe!"
My creditors beset me so
And so environed my abode,
That I agreed, despite my need,
To settle up the debts I owed;
When suddenly there came the news
Of this invasion, as you know;
I'll pay no score; pray, lend me more,--
I--I will keep it from the foe!
Now here's my mistress,--pretty dear!--
Feigns terror at this martial noise,
And yet, methinks, the artful minx
Would like to meet those soldier boys!
I tell her that they're coarse and rude,
Yet feel she don't believe 'em so,--
Well, never mind; so she be kind,
That much I rescue from the foe!
If, brothers, hope shall have in store
For us and ours no friendly glance,
Let's rather die than raise a cry
Of welcome to the foes of France!
But, like the swan that dying sings,
Let us, O Frenchmen, singing go,--
Then shall our cheer, when death is near,
Be so much rescued from the foe!

Original English Poem is by Maurice Sendak
मूल अंग्रेजी कविता के लेखक मौरिस सेंडेक
Hindi Translation is by Rajnish Manga
हिंदी अनुवाद रजनीश मंगा द्वारा
............................................. ..................................
In January it's so nice,
While slipping on the sliding ice,
To sip hot chicken soup with rice.
Sipping once, sipping twice,
Sipping chicken soup with rice.
***
जनवरी के माह की हर बात न्यारी है
बर्फ़ में फिसलना भी आह्लाद्कारी है
चावलों के साथ गर्म चिकन सूप हितकारी है
घूँट घूँट कर पीते जाना बड़ा गुणकारी है
चावलों के साथ चिकन सूप हितकारी है

The old war is over the new one has begun
between drivers and pedestrians on a Friday
in New York light is the variable and structure
the content according to Rodrigo Moynihan's
self-portraits at the Robert Miller Gallery where
the painter is serially pictured holding a canvas,
painting his mirror image, shirtless in summer,
with a nude, etc., it's two o'clock and I'm walking
at top speed from the huddled tourists yearning to be
a mass to Les Halles on Park and 28th for a Salade
Niçoise I've just watched The Singing Detective all
six hours of it and can't get it out of my mind,
the scarecrow that turns into Hitler, the sad-eyed
father wearing a black arm-band, the yellow umbrellas
as Bing Crosby's voice comes out of Michael Gambon's
mouth, "you've got to ac-cent-tchu-ate the positive,
e-lim-inate the negative" advice as sound today
as in 1945 though it also remains true that
the only thing to do with good advice is pass it on

January cold desolate;
February all dripping wet;
March wind ranges;
April changes;
Birds sing in tune
To flowers of May,
And sunny June
Brings longest day;
In scorched July
The storm-clouds fly
Lightning-torn;
August bears corn,
September fruit;
In rough October
Earth must disrobe her;
Stars fall and shoot
In keen November;
And night is long
And cold is strong
In bleak December.

With numbing cold, biting at my brittle bones
I feel many years giving me a wake up shake
Gripping my coat through the more gripping cold
I feel the world has grown old.
January I cried for my Mom the first time
She probably cried and then smiled for my tears
She surely is yet smiling for my thoughts through these years
For the tears that she shed were at giving me birth
January is the warmest time on earth

Come melancholy Moralizer--come!
Gather with me the dark and wintry wreath;
With me engarland now
The SEPULCHRE OF TIME!
Come Moralizer to the funeral song!
I pour the dirge of the Departed Days,
For well the funeral song
Befits this solemn hour.
But hark! even now the merry bells ring round
With clamorous joy to welcome in this day,
This consecrated day,
To Mirth and Indolence.
Mortal! whilst Fortune with benignant hand
Fills to the brim thy cup of happiness,
Whilst her unclouded sun
Illumes thy summer day,
Canst thou rejoice--rejoice that Time flies fast?
That Night shall shadow soon thy summer sun?
That swift the stream of Years
Rolls to Eternity?
If thou hast wealth to gratify each wish,
If Power be thine, remember what thou art--
Remember thou art Man,
And Death thine heritage!
Hast thou known Love? does Beauty's better sun
Cheer thy fond heart with no capricious smile,
Her eye all eloquence,
Her voice all harmony?
Oh state of happiness! hark how the gale
Moans deep and hollow o'er the leafless grove!
Winter is dark and cold--
Where now the charms of Spring?
Sayst thou that Fancy paints the future scene
In hues too sombrous? that the dark-stol'd Maid
With stern and frowning front
Appals the shuddering soul?
And would'st thou bid me court her faery form
When, as she sports her in some happier mood,
Her many-colour'd robes
Dance varying to the Sun?
Ah vainly does the Pilgrim, whose long road
Leads o'er the barren mountain's storm-vext height,
With anxious gaze survey
The fruitful far-off vale.
Oh there are those who love the pensive song
To whom all sounds of Mirth are dissonant!
There are who at this hour
Will love to contemplate!
For hopeless Sorrow hails the lapse of Time,
Rejoicing when the fading orb of day
Is sunk again in night,
That one day more is gone.
And he who bears Affliction's heavy load
With patient piety, well pleas'd he knows
The World a pilgrimage,
The Grave the inn of rest.

January sings again for me
and  for a year dead gone
on the wheels
of a northern curse.
January sings,
sings again for me
and for autumn flowers
January 30,  2010

Book One: The Journey Begins
(This is a fictional poetic series and short story about events that never take place and about people that have never existed. Any representation of an actual event or person is purely coincidental in nature.)
Mission Four: A bullet signed with my name.
Mission Four: A bullet signed with my name.
Today, my captain gave me another top secret mission plan.
For this mission I will be in charge of my own squad on a cold rainy night.
The Sergeant Major picked twelve well trained soldiers for me to command.
Just like every mission before, we are told to prepare for a serious fight
Noisily, the camouflaged helicopter landed beside a serene river bend.
Promptly, four of my men quickly disembarked and rushed to secured the hill.
In the darkness of the night, I immediately followed encircled by the rest of my men.
After we gather in a tight defensive formation, I informed them of who we came to kill.
I decided that it was best to separate the twelve men into three different crews.
A U. S. Army Ranger has a mixture of dangerous skills needed to take this place apart.
We are very well trained and the most effective weapon our country has to use.
After finishing the encouraging words I said, ‘It is time for our mission to start.’
Very silently each crew quickly and quietly departed each going a separate way.
My covert team carefully took most of our intended targets by surprise.
Suddenly, I turned around and killed the first enemy that day.
With my nine millimeter pistol, I shot him dead between his eyes.
From out of nowhere, sixteen of the enemy soldiers quickly surrounded us.
The team scout loudly shouted, “Hey look out! ” right before they came.
In return I shouted to my men, ’We will kill them too, if we must.’
Then came a silent twirling bullet signed with my name.
Roughly, the twirling hot bullet forcefully tore through the flesh of my  arm.
I cried out with the sounds of my pain and my team, around me, quickly gathers.
I reminded myself  that I must fight the pain; for my men I must remain calm.
If I do not mine the pain then it will not hurt; this mission is the only thing that matters.
Bravely and boldly, in the midst of the battle, we skillfully continued to fight.
The untrained and under equipped enemy quickly dies easily one by one.
We killed them all to ensure that our squad would safely escape into the night.
Finally, the last enemy fell and we waited for the other teams to be done.
A bomb that one of the other crews planted inside the enemy’s building suddenly erupt,
The building exploded into flames and through the air, pieces of bodies fly everywhere.
The team quickly gathered and waited for the camouflaged helicopter to pick us up.
Another thrilling battle has been fought and not one U. S. Army Ranger died there.
(Copyright 2007)

I  think  I'm  going  to  make  it  through,
It's  been  so  long  you  see;
There's  much  more  life  behind  me  now
Than  out  in  front  of  me.
There  was  a  time,  when  not  so  sure;
I  thought  to  end  it  then.
I  didn't  see  how  one  could  live
Without  much  joy  and  win.
But  I  found  out  you  can  endure
Without  a  special  one.
And  after  all,  it  must  be  said;
Of  fate,  what's  done  is  done.
And  so  I  choose  to  carry  on
With  life  and  burdens  bore.
I  hope  if  I  can  carry  these,
God  may  not  give  me  more.
But  if  He  did,  I  hope  He'd  grant,
My  just  one  simple  plea;
To  end  my  life  with  one  great  love
Who'd  bring  great  joy  to  me.
So  now  I'm  near  the  end  of  life,
My  joyless  days  near  done.
I'd  lie  if  I  would  dare  to  say,
I  never  did  have  fun.
But  what  is  true,  and  that's  the  rub,
Of  life,  don't  you  agree;
Is  love  is  really  what's  required,
For  joy  to  be  set  free?
So  on  it  is  with  what  remains,
I  hope,  not  very  long;
Of  life,  perhaps  to  know  great  love,
If  it  should  come  along.
And  as  I  go  my  separate  way,
I'll  not  begrudge  their  joy;
If  others  feel  what  I  once  felt,
When  I  was  just  a  boy.
Instead  I'll  smile  and  just  recall
The  joy  I  felt  back  then.
And  know  that  I'll  feel  soon  enough
Love's  wondrous  joy  again.

We were happy all that morning
Ο God how happy.
First the stones the leaves and the flowers shone
and then the sun
a huge sun all thorns but so very high in the heavens.
Α Nymph was gathering our cares and hanging them on the trees
a forest of Judas trees.
Cupids and satyrs were singing and playing
and rosy limbs could be glimpsed amid black laurel
the flesh of young children.
We were happy all that morning;
the abyss was a closed well
ο n which the tender foot of a young faun stamped
do γ ο υ remember its laughter: how happy we were!
And then clouds rain and the damp earth;
you stopped laughing when you reclined in the hut,
and opened your large eyes and gazed
on the archangel wielding a fiery sword
'Ι cannot explain it, ' you said, 'Ι cannot explain it, '
Ι find people impossible to understand
however much they may play with colors
they are all black.
GEORGE SEFERIS. Translated by Kimon Friar.

Joy and Sorrow.........
Joy and sorrow
are
the light and shade of life
without light and shade
no picture is clear
(april 2009)

Joy, Joy, Joy
J oy-filled cornucopia  that
O verflows with goodies  that
Y ields from joy (the source) :
pleasure
happiness
enjoyment-so
allow no externals
To lay claim to inner joy!
Almedia Knight and
Claude H.Oliver II

788
Joy to have merited the Pain—
To merit the Release—
Joy to have perished every step—
To Compass Paradise—
Pardon—to look upon thy face—
With these old fashioned Eyes—
Better than new—could be—for that—
Though bought in Paradise—
Because they looked on thee before—
And thou hast looked on them—
Prove Me—My Hazel Witnesses
The features are the same—
So fleet thou wert, when present—
So infinite—when gone—
An Orient's Apparition—
Remanded of the Morn—
The Height I recollect—
'Twas even with the Hills—
The Depth upon my Soul was notched—
As Floods—on Whites of Wheels—
To Haunt—till Time have dropped
His last Decade away,
And Haunting actualize—to last
At least—Eternity—

ONE hour to madness and joy!
O furious! O confine me not!
(What is this that frees me so in storms?
What do my shouts amid lightnings and raging winds mean?)
O to drink the mystic deliria deeper than any other man!
O savage and tender achings!
(I bequeath them to you, my children,
I tell them to you, for reasons, O bridegroom and bride.)
O to be yielded to you, whoever you are, and you to be yielded to me,
in defiance of the world!
O to return to Paradise! O bashful and feminine!                   10
O to draw you to me--to plant on you for the first time the lips of a
determin'd man!
O the puzzle--the thrice-tied knot--the deep and dark pool! O all
untied and illumin'd!
O to speed where there is space enough and air enough at last!
O to be absolv'd from previous ties and conventions--I from mine, and
you from yours!
O to find a new unthought-of nonchalance with the best of nature!
O to have the gag remov'd from one's mouth!
O to have the feeling, to-day or any day, I am sufficient as I am!
O something unprov'd! something in a trance!
O madness amorous! O trembling!
O to escape utterly from others' anchors and holds!                20
To drive free! to love free! to dash reckless and dangerous!
To court destruction with taunts--with invitations!
To ascend--to leap to the heavens of the love indicated to me!
To rise thither with my inebriate Soul!
To be lost, if it must be so!
To feed the remainder of life with one hour of fulness and freedom!
With one brief hour of madness and joy.

Love's Lunacy
Why do I speak of joy, or write of love,
When my heart is the very den of horror,
And in my soul the pains of Hell I prove,
With all his torments and infernal terror?
What should I say? What yet remains to do?
My brain is dry with weeping all too long,
My sighs be spent in uttering my woe,
And I want words wherewith to tell my wrong;
But, still distracted in Love's lunacy,
And, bedlam-like, thus raging in my grief,
Now rail upon her hair, then on her eye,
Now call her Goddess, then I call her thief,
Now I deny her, then I do confess her,
Now do I curse her, then again I bless her.

It's good the great green earth to roam,
Where sights of awe the soul inspire;
But oh, it's best, the coming home,
The crackle of one's own hearth-fire!
You've hob-nobbed with the solemn Past;
You've seen the pageantry of kings;
Yet oh, how sweet to gain at last
The peace and rest of Little Things!
Perhaps you're counted with the Great;
You strain and strive with mighty men;
Your hand is on the helm of State;
Colossus-like you stride . . . and then
There comes a pause, a shining hour,
A dog that leaps, a hand that clings:
O Titan, turn from pomp and power;
Give all your heart to Little Things.
Go couch you childwise in the grass,
Believing it's some jungle strange,
Where mighty monsters peer and pass,
Where beetles roam and spiders range.
'Mid gloom and gleam of leaf and blade,
What dragons rasp their painted wings!
O magic world of shine and shade!
O beauty land of Little Things!
I sometimes wonder, after all,
Amid this tangled web of fate,
If what is great may not be small,
And what is small may not be great.
So wondering I go my way,
Yet in my heart contentment sings . . .
O may I ever see, I pray,
God's grace and love in Little Things.
So give to me, I only beg,
A little roof to call my own,
A little cider in the keg,
A little meat upon the bone;
A little garden by the sea,
A little boat that dips and swings . . .
Take wealth, take fame, but leave to me,
O Lord of Life, just Little Things.

Wine and joy are completely forgotten,
As well as his armor and sword.
Alone he descends in the rotten
Mysterious dungeon. The door
Is squeaking with long drawn sound
For no one has entered inside.
The dark and the damp reign around.
The window is narrow and high.
His eyes grow accustomed to the gloom and
Through the dust and the web he explores
Some strange marks, emerging and looming
On the floor, on the vaults, on the walls.
He gazes at the marks’ interlacement
At those incomprehensible signs
And tarries for Death to embrace him
To enlighten his soul and eyes.

The one
who is supposed to
give me justice has
amazingly declared her heart
as a court,
she herself as a judge to hear,
her brain as a lawyer to plea,
herself witnesses to prove,
even then
her decisions are also based on
the rules and regulations
mentioned in the black book of law,
she constructed herself
as per her own willingness too.
_____________
Poem in Pashto and English By: Afzal Shauq / Edited By: Jessica R
© Afzal Shauq

The man is thought a knave, or fool.
Or bigot, plotting crime,
Who, for the advancement of his kind.
Is wiser than his time.
For him the hemlock shall distil;
For him the axe be bared;
For him the gibbet shall be built;
For him the stake prepared.
Him shall the scorn and wrath of men
Pursue with deadly aim;
And malice, envy, spite, and lies,
ShaU desecrate his name.
But Truth shall conquer at the last.
For round and round we run;
And ever the Right comes uppermost,
And ever is Justice done.
Pace through thy cell, old Socrates,
Cheerily to and fro;
Trust to the impulse of thy soul,
And let the poison flow.
They may shatter to earth the lamp of clay
That holds a light divine,
But they cannot quench the fire of thought
By any such deadly wine.
They cannot blot thy spoken words
From the memory of man
By all the poison ever was brew'd
Since time its course began.
To-day abhorred, to-morrow adored,
So round and round we run;
And ever the Truth comes uppermost.
And ever is Justice done.
Plod in thy cave grey anchorite;
Be wiser than thy peers;
Augment the range of human power,
And trust to coming years.
They may call thee wizard, and monk accursed,
And load thee with dispraise;
Thou wert bom five hundred years too soon
For the comfort of thy days;
But not too soon for humankind.
Time hath reward in store;
And the demons of our sires become
The saints that we adore.
The blind can see, the slave is lord,
So round and round we run;
And ever the wrong is proved to be wrongs
And ever is Justice done.
Keep, Galileo, to thy thought,
And nerve thy soul to bear;
They may gloat o'er the senseless words they wring
From the pangs of thy despair;
They may veil their eyes, but they cannot hide
The sun's meridian glow;
The heel of a priest may tread thee down.
And a tyrant work thee woe;
But never a truth has been destroy'd;
They may curse it and call it crime;
Pervert and betray, or slander and slay,
Its teachers for a time;
Bat the sunshine aye shall light the sky.
As round and round we run;
And the Truth shall ever come uppermost,
And Justice shall be done.
And live there now such men as these-
With thoughts like the great of old?
Many have died in their misery,
And left their thought untold;
And many live, and are rank'd as mad,
And placed in the cold world's ban.
For sending their bright far-seeing souls
Three centuries in the van.
They toil in penury and grief,
Unknown, if not malign'd;
Forlorn, forlorn, hearing the scorn
Of the meantest of mankind!
But yet the world goes round and round,
And the genial seasons run;
And ever the Truth comes uppermost.
And ever is Justice done.

Justice 2
What’s justice?
A child asked his mother?
A head shake
What’s justice?
A child asked her father.
A head shake
What’s justice?
Elderly in pension had question.
A head shake
What’s justice?
Patient asked in a bed, hospital.
A head shake
What’s justice?
Children of divorce talked, conversed.
A head shake
What’s justice?
Lover asked when meeting man in bars.
No head-shake
What’s justice?
At return she told kids, hungry at table:
In tongue of sunset-less empire it’s:
Just Ice

The bards of old their stories told.
In rhyming verse they had writ,
to entertain the young and old.
Sometimes they stretched the truth a bit.
To please their current lordly host
They would extol his bravery
and of his prowess loudly boast.
Although their words lacked verity.
They spread the news from far and near.
Tailored to suit their audience.
Some news which they were glad to hear.
The bards received in recompense.
The recognition and respect
accorded to them for their skill.
A place to sleep as you’d expect
and food and drink enough to fill.
Always treated as a welcome guest
in manor house or lordly hall
They could fulfil their host’s requests
with stories suitable for all.
Love stories for the ladies ears
and  tales of war to suit the men
Old tales for those advanced in years
which could recall their youth again.
The bards were guardians of the lore
which was passed down from bard to bard.
The masters of bryhonic law
Which they had studied long and hard.
It took them one and twenty years
to earn the title of a bard.
Long years of travel sweat and tears.
Authority was their reward.
All men were subject to the law
from kitchen churl to lordly knight
All disputes then were brought before
a bard to judge as was their right.
He listened to the evidence
then made his judgement openly
Applied the law with common sense
but always judged impartially.
But that was then unlike today.
When every man obeyed the law.
But sadly we have gone astray
There is no justice any more.
The laws today are not applied
to rich and poor men equally.
All thoughts of justice cast
aside in our corrupt society.
A guilty man can go Scott free
when clever lawyers twist the laws
and find some technicality.
For which they are well paid of course.
There are no bryhon bards today
and poets get but scant respect
But still we try to show the way
We must protest poetically.
The conscience of society
that has to be our modern role.
To outline with our poetry
Justice for all should be our goal.
2-Feb-09
http: // blog.myspace.com/poeticpiers

Slaves to the powers
of the external mind
If your innocent or guilty
they do not mind
Watching and waiting
to make their strike
They'll take you down
and watch you drown
As long as they get somebody
to make themselves proud
They won't care
that your mind is not all there
All over the world
The powers of the external mind
is watching you

An eighteen-legged female spider
had fallen in a vat of cider.
She struggled with her puny legs
and lost, due to the fear, her eggs.
The spiderwife began to panic
and feared she would, like the Titanic,
end at the bottom, thus deep down,
(non-swimming spiders often drown) .
She pledged to be a brave example,
to struggle while she still had ample
tenacity and strong reserves.
She would ignore her fraying nerves.
The spider's movements now were slowing
as all her glycogen was going.
But, just before the final minute
she yelled: 'The cider, aren't I in it? '
And, within seconds she had found
that she now stood on solid ground.
That moment, when the farmer's mother
checked on the cider and said  'BROTHER! '
It had become a solid mess,
the why was anybody's guess.
The eggs had dropped into the cider,
been agitated by the spider,
eventually it had become
eggnog without a hint of rum.
Relieved, the spiderwoman rested
outside the vat, when (hairy-chested) ,
a frog hopped over, just to see.
He asked 'To Be Or Not To Be? '
Of course he ate the little spider,
then stuck his tongue into the cider
and drank through lingual osmosis.
He died of terminal cirrhosis.

I assumed him wrong
He was not to be taken for real song
It was my greatest error
He was unlucky for ever
I had starved for him to be one
But he cared for nothing or none
He proved black sheep in real sense
It made me worrisome and tense
I was rushing in daytime
To see him anywhere anytime
I never bothered about hot sun
I was ready to go to any length or run
He has taken every inch of me
I have been made scapegoat to flee
With no place to go for safety
He has caused me lot of worries
I am no small chicken
I shall fight it out even
I know how to face each angle!
I can never be pushed to fail
I know I have been wronged
Yet it is fully managed
I shall survive and show
That life still can have easy water flow
He took me simply for sex object
Even though I knew it was tricky act
I had idea of withering storm
But let it go on reality term
I raise my head with honor
Even if he proved deserter
I want each woman folk to live with justice
So no one can break word or promise

She is passionate about
fairness and equality.
Justice is not just a store,
but rather a progressive and important social concept.
Rosa Parks and Mother Teresa
are role models who inspire her.
She likes how February is
Black History month
and March is
Women's History month,
but yet she still ponders
how women have only had
the right to vote
since 1920 in America.
Not even 100 years
have passed
and there has never been
a woman President.
She doubts some men
would ever vote
for a woman President
and that makes her sad.
She likes when women
do not hit the glass ceiling
and instead rise
to positions of leadership.
She thinks pay inequality
based on gender
is grossly unfair.
She ponders how can men still be
paid vastly more
for the exact same job as a woman
in a progressive society?
She is a social justice girl.

Wandering Justice
O! Dear, have I hit a miss?
With wandering justice
When society systems fail
And someone goes to jail
Without any chance of bail
Or ever setting out again on sea to sail
For something they did not do; it is a sad tale
When there is war instead of peace
And dignified people are looking for ass to kiss
Where is justice?
Countries are suffering in health and poverty
Whilst others are enjoying wealth and property
Where is justice?
O! Dear, have I hit a miss?
With wandering justice
When someone you love
Is taken away to the skies above
Where is the justice?
When you read endlessly to take exams
Another passes it with some fraudulent scam
Where is the justice?
When all your life you work so hard
Doesn’t it get you viciously mad?
When the jackpot hits another who is bad
Where is the justice?
When life takes away your child
Because you ignored health symptoms as mild
Where is the justice?
At work when your original innovations
Reward your boss with a standing ovation
Followed by a double or triple promotion
And all you get from the boss is a caution
Where is the justice?
When living a healthy life is nothing but a trick
As destiny picks on you for the sake of a kick
With illnesses for the unhealthy and the weak
All the same you are the one who ends up sick
Where is the justice?
O! Dear, have I hit a miss?
With wandering justice
Fair for all is what I call justice
Moments of rewarding bliss
When a man plants his seeds
Creating numerous mouths to feed
And he provides them with all their needs
I call it Justice!
When you work hard
Indulging in good not bad
And life rewards make you so glad
I call it Justice!
Yet justice often wanders away
Before you have your chance of say
When it wanders, the price is often high to pay
O! Dear, have I hit a miss?
With wandering justice
As it leaves behind a trail of flaws
That is not within the confinement of fair law!

I run through the rainbow
Drenching my mouth
In the pastels - tints
Of its passing,
Absorbing every touch of its colour
This warmth I love,
It pulsates in blood,
And I penetrate
Across its variety,
Pages of you
To become only
The small particle
Drinking from your mouth
My own soul

‘Twas Spring in a desert town
Chill was in the evening air
Desert land bare and brown
I'd longed to see my lady fair
Dressed all in black
She tapped softly at my door
She still possessed a knack
To shake me to my core
Dinner for two at some quiet place
Where time once more stood still
Rekindled love set hearts to race
Life held no greater thrill
We shook hands, said good bye
I chanced “A Stolen Kiss”
Then gone the magic moment
of our romantic bliss...
ROTMS

Golden slumbers kiss your eyes,
Smiles awake you when you rise ;
Sleep, pretty wantons, do not cry,
And I will sing a lullaby,
Rock them, rock them, lullaby.
Care is heavy, therefore sleep you,
You are care, and care must keep you ;
Sleep, pretty wantons, do not cry,
And I will sing a lullaby,
Rock them, rock them, lullaby.

i see your mouth,
blowing her a kiss,
tough luck baby,
you can't have this...
cos she's one of them plastics,
with bitchy style,
who think their lives revolve around,
a fuckin nail file....! !
prissy little princess's,
what else is it you do?
besides go on constant prowls,
for more men to screw?
skanky little bitches,
the ones i want to hit! !
your missing out on life,
the most important bit...
see sleeping with the teacher,
will only get you so far! !
it won't get you that high rollers job,
to pay for your pink little car....! !
it won't get you friends,
that always got your back,
and it won't buy you respect,
that is a certain fact..! !
see you think everyone loves you,
but fact is they don't! !
and don't even try to make them fall in love with your plastic ass! !
cos they fuckin won't! !

Kissing is an art, one most master
Kissing slowly is better than faster
Kiss me slowly
Kiss me tenderly
Kiss me sweetly
Kiss me on the lips
Down to my finger tips
Delicately sample my nipples
Kiss it, tease it, rather simple
When done right, let me be precise
Kissing itself can be rather very nice
Kiss me slowly
Kiss me tenderly
Kiss me sweetly
Kiss my body inch by inch
Till it tickles and starts to flinch
Kiss me in the left and right ear
Whisper sweet words of passionate care
Kiss me by the neck
With little kisses called pecks
Kiss me hungrily in the mouth
Hear my groaning delicious shouts
Kiss me below and yonder
Till my juices begin to ponder
And turn on fire with desire
Kiss me slowly
Kiss me tenderly
Kiss me sweetly
Kiss me once, twice, thrice
Oooo! These kisses are very nice
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi

In this barroom,
They serve shots of despair
For alienated patrons to drink
And add further misery
To their laundry list of cares.
In August,
A man can be a hero
To his wife and child.
In September,
Sweeping their footsteps
From off the verandah.
In this life,
Tenderness is rare
Like an exotic African bird
Preserved in photography
In a coffee table book.
Next time I kiss a woman,
I’ll taste her breath
Slowly and sweetly,
Linger in her eyes
For eternity
Before I make my exit
And retreat into the shadows
Of another prolonged exile.

Woman, you are the one who lingers
In my mind with aching tenderness,
But you are hidden in the distance,
Walking through the business world
With your stately shoulders
In a summer dress;
Your smile is brief and suggests
Inner-stirring ideas
For the moment suppressed.
Are your thoughts
All professional and money related?
Or do you drift
Into your young girl affairs
And the first lucky boy
To kiss your virgin breasts?
I would have been
That fortunate and karma-blessed boy
If circumstance and geography
Would have brought me
To the wondrous parks and haunts
Of your girlhood dreams.
It would have been love
And I wouldn’t have lost you
To indelicate or cruel mistakes of time,
I would have cherished your breath
And would have kept you
Like a mystical and sacred locket
Forever next to my heart.

A kiss,
The kiss,
A moment’s bliss,
Upon a face that has been kissed a thousand times before,
One kiss,
This kiss,
A silky hiss,
That tells its’ secret tales of what the butler saw,
Parted lips,
A moments’ pressure,
Painted lips,
A moments’ pleasure.

You awaken
my sleeping
with a long slow kiss
my face enclosed
in your falling hair
I worship
your mouth
and its holy kisses
as if a sacrement
I was recieving
you
the blessing.

Have you ever heard a giraffe laugh,
Or a chimpanzee go hee hee hee?
Have you happened to hear a rhino ho ho,
Or the goofy giggle of a happy little flea?

Humour
means happiness
If you can laugh in life
forgetting all the pain and strife
he may not say the words 'begone dull wife'
but will dance around the house
to waltzes by Strauss.
Love depends on
Humour

THERE is no laughter in the natural world
Of beast or fish or bird, though no sad doubt
Of their futurity to them unfurled
Has dared to check the mirth-compelling shout.
The lion roars his solemn thunder out
To the sleeping woods. The eagle screams her cry.
Even the lark must strain a serious throat
To hurl his blest defiance at the sky.
Fear, anger, jealousy, have found a voice.
Love’s pain or rapture the brute bosoms swell.
Nature has symbols for her nobler joys,
Her nobler sorrows. Who had dared foretell
That only man, by some sad mockery,
Should learn to laugh who learns that he must die?

LAUGHTER - LAUGHTER
laughter - laughter here I come
to make my friend smile and calm
jump and jump to the left to the right
thru the day time and night
laughter - laughter here I am
to make true all the sweetest dreams
like my friend always has in sleep
thru the very beautiful night
that will never skip
laughter - laughter here we are
my friend and I are blab - blab - blab
and we are happy and careless
cause the better future are waiting for us
laughter - laughter, who are you?
WHAT! you don't recognize me?
I am sorry, I thought I know you
but just let it be
because a real friendship doesn't care who we are
(build a strong good friendship among us)

Laughter the best of human tendencies and outlet of emotions
One cannot avoid laughter throughout his life
The individual who is incapable to laugh in such feelings
That makes the mind in humor and happiest and best of moods
May be somewhat wrong in his mindset so says the learnt ones
Laughter a perfect  mechanism and outlet to vanish tension
Stresses and strains of human feelings we have to avoid
So laugh so much when you feel it good and in such mind
No one is bothered to question your freedom of laughter
But always keep the laughing with pure awareness
Without making negative feelings to the nearer ones
The most successful men of world leaders and intellectuals
Were capable to laugh in good spirit and making other happy
The secrecy behind their success being the laughter
Follow their ways of tendencies of expressions of laughter
The real success will be to you no doubt remember.

the sound of a smile in a voice
resonated ripples in my mind
smiles laughing in depths of soul
Copyright © Terence George Craddock

The ikon of that little face
always present asleep  or  awake.
The one hand stretched out to grasp,
the other beating, kicking waters back.
How could the poor weaked creatures
keep themselves on  the foam up!
Had she the strength to clasp him to her!
Slap on the mouth the wave,
saltiness swallowed for breath
gives her a turn.  Flinches,
in a whirlwind immersed...
Hh! she does not remember any more
what else  there and after happened at all.
Scene bitter in her memory etched,
turbulent sea,  to fight waters against,
the agony on  the gaze,
the suppliance in his crying voice.
They did not manage to save him too.
Drowned, they  said,
found him at the bottom, ...dead.
Oh! She still hears the bullets and bombs
falling rain in the neighborhood.
Her ear heard on the flight's  road
that many known and friends went lost,
these and these  she  as well  knew
schoolmates too and not a few.
Shudders the  mind, trembles the heart,
alone the  bitter tears often roll down.
She feels a knot clogging the  throat.
Sob strange comes often out as breath.
In  the foamed waves does not forget
that cursed moment,
does not,
and twists the poor button
once to the right once to the left.....
She hates her laughter,
she cuts it in the middle of the process,
she hides it, ashamed, afraid
obstinately closes  lips,
lest in  the world be heard,
a tear yes, preferred to be shared, yes!
He does not know, does not believe,
imagine can not,
whether her lips will ever again  laugh,
whether  reopen free  wings in the sky up.
How she can not bear  anyone
thinking of her a Lucky one,
when she would have  free  lips to laugh,
if only in her place  were that,
that child and all the other lost ones!
.......................

The children are playing football in the park off of the street
The joy in their laughter it does sound so sweet
'Tis true youth is such a marvellous thing
Like the flowers of the fields that bloom lovely in Spring.
The joy of their laughter bring back memories to me
Of happy boyhood days of any cares free
In the Town park on Summer evenings we kicked the football
Such wonderful memories are good to recall
The years went so quickly and time did not wait
And I've grown grayer and slower and I'm putting on weight
The future belongs to the youth of today
Though they too will grow to learn that time quickly ticks away.
Some of those I went to school with now with the dead lay
And some are grand parents and their grand children play
The games they themselves played they run up and down
In pursuit of the football in the park by the Town.
As I walk to the bottle shop for to buy beer
The laughter of the children playing football I hear
Their best days approaching and mine in the past
But time keeps on ticking and nothing does last.

w. m. d. ”s  does not mean weapons of mass destruction
But! Women! Men s destruction.
They attract you with their looks and charms
And bodies that will put you in “ self destruct”.
But to them that’s not enough.
They want to control your mind from
Now till the end of time.
Like a hamster in a play pen
With a beginning but no end.
You climb on that “spinning wheel of life”
And run like hell
While they watch and laugh
And ring that bell.
They are truly men s destruction!
And I think that’s the way it will always be.
(Ha-ha  enjoy it women of the world)

He. Never until this night have I been stirred.
The elaborate starlight throws a reflection
On the dark stream,
Till all the eddies gleam;
And thereupon there comes that scream
From terrified, invisible beast or bird:
Image of poignant recollection.
She. An image of my heart that is smitten through
Out of all likelihood, or reason,
And when at last,
Youth's bitterness being past,
I had thought that all my days were cast
Amid most lovely places; smitten as though
It had not learned its lesson.
He. Why have you laid your hands upon my eyes?
What can have suddenly alarmed you
Whereon 'twere best
My eyes should never rest?
What is there but the slowly fading west,
The river imaging the flashing skies,
All that to this moment charmed you?
She. A Sweetheart from another life floats there
As though she had been forced to linger
From vague distress
Or arrogant loveliness,
Merely to loosen out a tress
Among the starry eddies of her hair
Upon the paleness of a finger.
He. But why should you grow suddenly afraid
And start -- I at your shoulder --
Imagining
That any night could bring
An image up, or anything
Even to eyes that beauty had driven mad,
But images to make me fonder?
She. Now She has thrown her arms above her head;
Whether she threw them up to flout me,
Or but to find,
Now that no fingers bind,
That her hair streams upon the wind,
I do not know, that know I am afraid
Of the hovering thing night brought me.

I keep the Cross before my eyes
And know the sacrifice He made.
His life for mine, His life for ALL
Is what his dieing  did that day.
I hear the shouts and feel the pain
As He trudged His destined way.
Scourged, deserted, denied, betrayed,
Soon-His death became- -
The heavons exploaded, the lightened raged,
His followers bewildered lay.
All hope was lost, Nothing remained! .
Then came the Glorious Easter Day! .

When the sun shines LIFE GOES ON
When the rain falls LIFE GOES ON
When the sun shines or the rain falls LIFE GOES ON.
When you're happy LIFE GOES ON
When you're sad LIFE GOES ON
When you're happy or you're sad if you're good or if
you're bad LIFE GOES ON
When you're laughing LIFE GOES ON
When you're crying LIFE GOES ON
If you're laughing or you're crying
If you're' living or you're dying LIFE GOES ON.

In a round way of life
what does a man need?
a woman to be call a wife?
or a plot to grow some whets?
just lie down in the night
with your eyes gaze at the light
knowing nothing could be done with your might
and ask yourself is that all to life
some think  life is all about making wealth
or having a family with good health
they gain all they thought but is like joy as melt
still the same life is to be felt
they try to seek for other solutions
but it becomes a greater situation
is like life is a place without salvation
that is the a place call the world
now let talk about my place call the word
u don't need to be in the dark nights
where satisfactions have great might
because you have come to the light
just believe in Jesus and shine so bright

Life is a dream to some.
Drifting without a goal.
Life is a tragedy to others,
Without knowledge of the soul.
Life can be what you make it.
With courage undaunted and strong.
If you try to do the best you can.
Instead of just drifting along.
Life is earnest, Life is demanding,
When we live by Universal Law.
For the laws are unfailing and true,
For the flawless action we feel awe.
Universal Law was in the beginning,
And will last for ever more.
When we live by these Laws
Life will cease to be a chore.
So live a life of one who knows,
That unseen Laws govern all.
Then your life will run smoothly,
There will never be a fall.

I.
Room after room,
I hunt the house through
We inhabit together.
Heart, fear nothing, for, heart, thou shalt find her---
Next time, herself!---not the trouble behind her
Left in the curtain, the couch's perfume!
As she brushed it, the cornice-wreath blossomed anew:
Yon looking-glass gleaned at the wave of her feather.
II.
Yet the day wears,
And door succeeds door;
I try the fresh fortune---
Range the wide house from the wing to the centre.
Still the same chance! She goes out as I enter.
Spend my whole day in the quest,---who cares?
But 'tis twilight, you see,---with such suites to explore,
Such closets to search, such alcoves to importune!

Everyone's life
Everyone's life's really tragic it seems,
There's just not time friend to live all our dreams.
While you may try to keep stiff upper lip,
Gravity's plotting to just sink your ship!
Wonder why some people's face sports a frown?
Most of our trains never get out of town
Yes, there are those with bright lives that seem charmed
(Living in fenced fear, their houses alarmed!)
Our fullest flower's the fruit of all breath
Blossoms revealed as harbinger of death
Our seed the key to mortality's curse
Our blood the oil for humanity's hearse.
Einstein's reality always a lie*
Truth(s)     we are seeking in quite short supply
Death is an area most think is real
Candidate surely for concept puerile!
When we are sure that the opposite's true
Death's unreality comes into view!
Credible evidence that soul exists.
Vanity skewered by what it resists.
Poetry can't prove that man's soul is real,
Satan's best plot not a single soul steal,
Your darkest moment when love hides its face
God's possibility blows up the place!

Money, name nor fame,
Joy nor yet dharma,
Nor this-that karma,
What then is life's aim?
Of myriads things rife,
Aim of life is life.
_________________________
Haikus |35.01.2019|

‘Too much of a good thing may be bad'
As the old cliche' goes
So always do things in moderation
Just like The Lord of Heaven knows
The blessings of God are great
As anyone can clearly see
And when done in moderation
We all can live quite free
That's the common sense He gave us
Each and every one
So practice it in our own ways
And His blessings will fill our days
Now that does not mean to take
The middle of the road each time
That just means to do what's right
And give glory to His name
For one will get smashed standing
In the middle of the road
If one fails on which side to stand
At the very least when the Word is told
< br>
Friends hip friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship  Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature

She ran towards me
On her face was a huge glee
She looked at her mummy and plead
“I want him mummy” she said
“I’ll name him Jim
I’ll play with him
I’ll take him for walks
I’ll make him stay away from your frocks
I’ll make him clean
Like a king I’ll let him reign
And Julie will be his queen
I’ll teach him tricks
I’ll take him with me for picnics
I’ll look after him when he is sick
I’ll always be there for him
He’ll be my only Jim
Please mummy
Can I keep him? ”
Her mummy replied with a yes
And I knew me, god really did bless
I stood away from mess
And I bent towards my new mistress
She came towards me
But moved to my right;
Where Rawky, my friend was sitting
She took him in her arms and said
“Thank you mama,
Thanks for letting me keep Jim”
My dreams were shattered
It was not me whom she wanted
I laid my head down
And closed my dark eyes
I knew I was alone
Alone in this lonely world
Because I am just a dog
An ugly and lonely stray dog

A lonely woman under the lonely nights,
That mad young woman.

289
I know some lonely Houses off the Road
A Robber'd like the look of—
Wooden barred,
And Windows hanging low,
Inviting to—
A Portico,
Where two could creep—
One—hand the Tools—
The other peep—
To make sure All's Asleep—
Old fashioned eyes—
Not easy to surprise!
How orderly the Kitchen'd look, by night,
With just a Clock—
But they could gag the Tick—
And Mice won't bark—
And so the Walls—don't tell—
None—will—
A pair of Spectacles ajar just stir—
An Almanac's aware—
Was it the Mat—winked,
Or a Nervous Star?
The Moon—slides down the stair,
To see who's there!
There's plunder—where—
Tankard, or Spoon—
Earring—or Stone—
A Watch—Some Ancient Brooch
To match the Grandmama—
Staid sleeping—there—
Day—ratt les—too
Stealth's—slow—
T he Sun has got as far
As the third Sycamore—
Screams Chanticleer
"Who's there"?
And Echoes—Trains away,
Sneer—"Where"!
While the old Couple, just astir,
Fancy the Sunrise—left the door ajar!

It doesn't matter how hard i try
Even though i'll be dyin inside
Look deep within and tell me what you find
I just can't seem to hide
These Lonely Eyes
They say nothing's harder than life
And those who live well are welcome in the sky
There's something wrong and i wanna take flight
I just can't seem to hide
These Lonely Eyes
Now that you're Gone Away i think i wanna die
I know you can see it, I'm surrounded by light
I tried to tell you i'm fine but that's a lie
I just can't seem to hide
These Lonely Eyes
As i see happy people go by
I'm so confused here, sometimes i wanna cry
I'm just a lonely soul lurkin in the lonely night
And i just can't seem to hide
These Lonely Eyes

The shadows hang over the archways,
still and silently fall to the ground,
no echo of footsteps are heard,
as nothing makes a sound.
There is no laughter of lovers,
no hush as they embrace;
nothing disturbs the silence,
of our lonely lover’s lane.
One-day lovers will walk there
know the happiness we knew.
One-day lovers will kiss there,
and know how I felt about you.
They will stop and admire the stillness,
that almost takes the breath away,
and feel the warmth of each other,
near the closing of the day.

Please someone, any one,
come scan it up and down.
Groceries, coupons one line.
Anything, if anything of value
you find, just leave one smile.

Loneliness is pure and independent
Original and creative
Struggle is noble
And the most corrupt thing in life
Is a group going the wrong way
Not the single struggling soul

The lonely Angel cries to herself,
Her head is hung low and her body is still,
She calls out into to darkness and hears her voice echo,
But there is no one else in her empty world,
She locks herself in afraid of what might happen,
Closes the illusive curtains and shuts the door to her feelings,
Her beautiful face has grown old with crying,
The perfect smile painted on her lips has been wiped off,
And her dreams and aspirations have all been erased.
She waits patiently for her walls of solid emotion to tear,
Her cares are not for money, power or enlightenment,
Instead love and care is all that seeks,
Memories whispered gently into her ears is all she has for company,
She lays naked with no clothes to protect her,
Her prayers are always for a light to guide her,
A small crevice created by her hope lets warm air upon her,
She sometimes huddles against this unique warmth,
And she knows that if she lets go of hope she will be cold forever.

Among the brambles of a shattered heart lies my soul in crags,
Among the shambles of life torn apart lies my spirit in rags;
Tears streaming down my face as snakes crawl on my body lifeless
Leaving amigos and flamingos away at the home, oh life pointless.
Ticktock! All I can hear is the ticking of the clock, yackety-yak!
The lonely train on the lonely track with 24 coaches painted black.
I climbed onto the gravel bed in the rain, lo lonely brain tames!
By the dawn from the ocean to every lane, it climbs, dookie salad!
In the noon from flat places to heaven and hell, A pensive ballad;
At dusk, in open air of beach I loitered singing rhyme ugly James.
Ticktock! All I can hear is ticking of the clock - yackety-yak!
The lonely train on the lonely track with 24 coaches painted black.
Hardy-har-har! Hold a pebble, a feather or a leaf in your hand
It will say I am lonely; I can't ride, I want to hide in the sand;
I'm single; oh my gosh! I'm sitting between my brother the mountain
My sister the sea - together threesome we live among soulless men.
Ticktock! All I can hear is the ticking of the clock, yackety-yak!
The lonely train on the lonely track with 24 coaches painted black.
I'm an air castle with dreams empty and screams plenty with terror
I don't want to be alone in the dark in a spine-chilling horror.
Then, the moon is a friend for the lonely man as flamingo cheers,
Bingo! Stars in the Galaxy are his companions as nature shares.
Ticktock! All I can hear is ticking of the clock, yackety-yak!
The lone train on the lonely track with 24 coaches painted black.

When I did name her little lost one, she
Brushed from her eyes the precious drops of love,
As if her memory with his sweet name shaken
Trembled, and shed its dew.

AH! who'll e'er those days restore,
Those bright days of early love
Who'll one hour again concede,
Of that time so fondly cherish'd!
Silently my wounds I feed,
And with wailing evermore
Sorrow o'er each joy now perish'd.
Ah! who'll e'er the days restore
Of that time so fondly cherish'd.

“Our loss was light,” the paper said,
“Compared with damage to the Hun”:
She was a widow, and she read
One name upon the list of dead
Her son, her only son.

Curiosity grows, finding new ground
Temptation breaks all resistance
Dark discoveries flood in
Innocence swept away
Sinfull satisfaction sweeps over
Curiosity laughs, temptation has won
Sources change, sin remains
Innocence is dead, replaced
Solemn days, no surprises
The sun shines over cold flesh
A warm heart beats, needing joy
Content for now, a mind wanders
Innocence has been lost...

Losing someone so special to you
Someone you loved so dearly
To lose that person
Is the greatest loss ever.
So how do you go on?
How can you make it another day?
After losing that most precious someone
How can you make it?
How can you survive with the endless tears
Each night you lay your head on your pillow?
What makes you go on?
How do you get up in the morning
Without your precious loved one?
How do you keep going on and on
With this terrible pain in your heart
That no amount of words
No amount of nature
No amount of belief
Can take it away from you?
It just lingers and lingers
As loss, loss, loss!
Where are you?
I miss you?
Why are you gone from my life?
I want you back
Why, why, why?
Yes, that is what it feels like – the loss.
Yet I am still here,
I am still surviving,
I am still going on,
I am still here.
Yet I feel as if a huge void is here in me
Like part of me vanished with you
And I need to get that part back
But wonder when I will?
And my loss is increased with
Not just losing you
But losing part of me too.
Do I have an answer to loss?
Do you?
The thing I can think of about loss is:
I am so lucky I got to know the precious person.
I got to see their beauty and their grace.
I got to enjoy their presence.
That I can treasure.
That I can keep
Special in my heart forever.
And maybe loss is just that – loss.
But just as we have loss,
We have all the special memories
That we can keep special in our minds forever,
And that is something we will never lose.
So maybe the answer to loss is to treasure the memories
Of our loved one
For as long as we have a memory
We never lose out, with loss.

I told him i loved him,
what a stupid mistake on my part.
He actually made me feel like a real person,
Now all i feel like is an empty shell.
When we were actually together,
you seemed to understand how much i needed you,
how much i actually cared.
Now however,
I dont think i can look at you
without feeling all the feelings i used to feel.
I hate that i dont think i'll ever be able to forget you
but i love that you were part of my life.
Ilove you forever and always

On the loss of a young man
~
A young man
With a steady career
Promising future
Highly rated
Close circle of friends
A young family
Well provided for
The kind of life
Many wish to have
All too suddenly gone
Leaving repeated questions
None will ever understand
Those silent tears
He wept and kept alone
Till they became to much
An obituary in a newspaper
Reads praise from many
The ending of his story
Sad and sadly unknown
Another young man
Gone too soon

Woman is a host and man is a guest
In a sexual act, an accomplished act.
She enjoys offering herself to him.
He enjoys himself feeding upon her.
Party is over; the host counts the loss.
22.02.2010

PALE brows, still hands and dim hair,
I had a beautiful friend
And dreamed that the old despair
Would end in love in the end:
She looked in my heart one day
And saw your image was there;
She has gone weeping away.

Abandoned to sadistic streets,
A school room of sullen tears,
A little girl lost beneath
A blanket of rejection and fears
Moves slowly through
The lonely night;
The effects of drugs
Are wearing off…
And dawn has no promise
Of sunlight and pleasant songs.

Embraced in the rythm of an eye closing hug,
Standing on the front porch and the welcome rug,
Is where I left you after a mine blowing night,
Of discovery of laughter of doing what is right,
But in my heart I fought with my mind,
Of wanting to kiss you and take you for mine,
Into my bedroom for pleasures beyond fun,
Where we would blend into each other and collapse as one,
Now the dream is over and I have lost,
The chance to see you again was not worth the cost,
Of the lack of action for being a gentleman__
2001

You are a beautiful woman in a room of candles,
The aroma of jasmine drifts from the terrace,
I’ll sleep with you beneath the stars
And I’ll unlatch the shoes from your feet,
There is no place upon your small body
I would ever consider too undignified to kiss.
Loneliness has been the dark lens
Coloring your perceptions,
You have left your prayers unspoken
In loveless childhood sanctuaries
Violated by the cruel
Who taught you through violence and abuse
You can only trust yourself.
It is understood, I can’t keep you,
You have no desire for a second husband,
Even the most pleasing lovers can become brutes,
But for now I will romance your mind
And learn to delicately touch your mouth,
And you will remember me later
When we are both lost again in separate jungles.

Mr. Blake was a regular out-and-out hardened sinner,
Who was quite out of the pale of Christianity, so to speak,
He was in the habit of smoking a long pipe and drinking a glass of
grog on a Sunday after dinner,
And seldom thought of going to church more than twice or - if Good
Friday or Christmas Day happened to come in it - three times a
week.
He was quite indifferent as to the particular kinds of dresses
That the clergyman wore at church where he used to go to pray,
And whatever he did in the way of relieving a chap's distresses,
He always did in a nasty, sneaking, underhanded, hole-and-corner
sort of way.
I have known him indulge in profane, ungentlemanly emphatics,
When the Protestant Church has been divided on the subject of the
proper width of a chasuble's hem;
I have even known him to sneer at albs - and as for dalmatics,
Words can't convey an idea of the contempt he expressed for THEM.
He didn't believe in persons who, not being well off themselves,
are obliged to confine their charitable exertions to collecting
money from wealthier people,
And looked upon individuals of the former class as ecclesiastical
hawks;
He used to say that he would no more think of interfering with his
priest's robes than with his church or his steeple,
And that he did not consider his soul imperilled because somebody
over whom he had no influence whatever, chose to dress himself up
like an exaggerated GUY FAWKES.
This shocking old vagabond was so unutterably shameless
That he actually went a-courting a very respectable and pious
middle-aged sister, by the name of BIGGS.
She was a rather attractive widow, whose life as such had always
been particularly blameless;
Her first husband had left her a secure but moderate competence,
owing to some fortunate speculations in the matter of figs.
She was an excellent person in every way - and won the respect even
of MRS. GRUNDY,
She was a good housewife, too, and wouldn't have wasted a penny if
she had owned the Koh-i-noor.
She was just as strict as he was lax in her observance of Sunday,
And being a good economist, and charitable besides, she took all
the bones and cold potatoes and broken pie-crusts and candle-ends
(when she had quite done with them), and made them into an
excellent soup for the deserving poor.
I am sorry to say that she rather took to BLAKE - that outcast of
society,
And when respectable brothers who were fond of her began to look
dubious and to cough,
She would say, "Oh, my friends, it's because I hope to bring this
poor benighted soul back to virtue and propriety,
And besides, the poor benighted soul, with all his faults, was
uncommonly well off.
And when MR. BLAKE'S dissipated friends called his attention to the
frown or the pout of her,
Whenever he did anything which appeared to her to savour of an
unmentionable place,
He would say that "she would be a very decent old girl when all
that nonsense was knocked out of her,"
And his method of knocking it out of her is one that covered him
with disgrace.
She was fond of going to church services four times every Sunday,
and, four or five times in the week, and never seemed to pall of
them,
So he hunted out all the churches within a convenient distance that
had services at different hours, so to speak;
And when he had married her he positively insisted upon their going
to all of them,
So they contrived to do about twelve churches every Sunday, and, if
they had luck, from twenty-two to twenty-three in the course of the
week.
She was fond of dropping his sovereigns ostentatiously into the
plate, and she liked to see them stand out rather conspicuously
against the commonplace half-crowns and shillings,
So he took her to all the charity sermons, and if by any
extraordinary chance there wasn't a charity sermon anywhere, he
would drop a couple of sovereigns (one for him and one for her)
into the poor-box at the door;
And as he always deducted the sums thus given in charity from the
housekeeping money, and the money he allowed her for her bonnets
and frillings,
She soon began to find that even charity, if you allow it to
interfere with your personal luxuries, becomes an intolerable bore.
On Sundays she was always melancholy and anything but good society,
For that day in her household was a day of sighings and sobbings
and wringing of hands and shaking of heads:
She wouldn't hear of a button being sewn on a glove, because it was
a work neither of necessity nor of piety,
And strictly prohibited her servants from amusing themselves, or
indeed doing anything at all except dusting the drawing-rooms,
cleaning the boots and shoes, cooking the parlour dinner, waiting
generally on the family, and making the beds.
But BLAKE even went further than that, and said that people should
do their own works of necessity, and not delegate them to persons
in a menial situation,
So he wouldn't allow his servants to do so much as even answer a
bell.
Here he is making his wife carry up the water for her bath to the
second floor, much against her inclination, -
And why in the world the gentleman who illustrates these ballads
has put him in a cocked hat is more than I can tell.
After about three months of this sort of thing, taking the smooth
with the rough of it,
(Blacking her own boots and peeling her own potatoes was not her
notion of connubial bliss),
MRS. BLAKE began to find that she had pretty nearly had enough of
it,
And came, in course of time, to think that BLAKE'S own original
line of conduct wasn't so much amiss.
And now that wicked person - that detestable sinner ("BELIAL BLAKE"
his friends and well-wishers call him for his atrocities),
And his poor deluded victim, whom all her Christian brothers
dislike and pity so,
Go to the parish church only on Sunday morning and afternoon and
occasionally on a week-day, and spend their evenings in connubial
fondlings and affectionate reciprocities,
And I should like to know where in the world (or rather, out of it)
they expect to go!

In the heart where
lier's lay
In the arms
of despair
Where all
lost souls do go
I linger there
Moon never shines
skies are black
And the sun is lost
Where misery dwells
Is where you'll find
me
Walking the path of
death valley
A lost soul
Began to be found
But i am where no
one will ever go
Even to save a very lost
soul
Lost in the world
where all
lost souls go

High on a throne of royal state, which far
Outshone the wealth or Ormus and of Ind,
Or where the gorgeous East with richest hand
Showers on her kings barbaric pearl and gold,
Satan exalted sat, by merit raised
To that bad eminence; and, from despair
Thus high uplifted beyond hope, aspires
Beyond thus high, insatiate to pursue
Vain war with Heaven; and, by success untaught,
His proud imaginations thus displayed:--
"Powers and Dominions, Deities of Heaven!--
For, since no deep within her gulf can hold
Immortal vigour, though oppressed and fallen,
I give not Heaven for lost: from this descent
Celestial Virtues rising will appear
More glorious and more dread than from no fall,
And trust themselves to fear no second fate!--
Me though just right, and the fixed laws of Heaven,
Did first create your leader--next, free choice
With what besides in council or in fight
Hath been achieved of merit--yet this loss,
Thus far at least recovered, hath much more
Established in a safe, unenvied throne,
Yielded with full consent. The happier state
In Heaven, which follows dignity, might draw
Envy from each inferior; but who here
Will envy whom the highest place exposes
Foremost to stand against the Thunderer's aim
Your bulwark, and condemns to greatest share
Of endless pain? Where there is, then, no good
For which to strive, no strife can grow up there
From faction: for none sure will claim in Hell
Precedence; none whose portion is so small
Of present pain that with ambitious mind
Will covet more! With this advantage, then,
To union, and firm faith, and firm accord,
More than can be in Heaven, we now return
To claim our just inheritance of old,
Surer to prosper than prosperity
Could have assured us; and by what best way,
Whether of open war or covert guile,
We now debate. Who can advise may speak."
He ceased; and next him Moloch, sceptred king,
Stood up--the strongest and the fiercest Spirit
That fought in Heaven, now fiercer by despair.
His trust was with th' Eternal to be deemed
Equal in strength, and rather than be less
Cared not to be at all; with that care lost
Went all his fear: of God, or Hell, or worse,
He recked not, and these words thereafter spake:--
"My sentence is for open war. Of wiles,
More unexpert, I boast not: them let those
Contrive who need, or when they need; not now.
For, while they sit contriving, shall the rest--
Millions that stand in arms, and longing wait
The signal to ascend--sit lingering here,
Heaven's fugitives, and for their dwelling-place
Accept this dark opprobrious den of shame,
The prison of his ryranny who reigns
By our delay? No! let us rather choose,
Armed with Hell-flames and fury, all at once
O'er Heaven's high towers to force resistless way,
Turning our tortures into horrid arms
Against the Torturer; when, to meet the noise
Of his almighty engine, he shall hear
Infernal thunder, and, for lightning, see
Black fire and horror shot with equal rage
Among his Angels, and his throne itself
Mixed with Tartarean sulphur and strange fire,
His own invented torments. But perhaps
The way seems difficult, and steep to scale
With upright wing against a higher foe!
Let such bethink them, if the sleepy drench
Of that forgetful lake benumb not still,
That in our porper motion we ascend
Up to our native seat; descent and fall
To us is adverse. Who but felt of late,
When the fierce foe hung on our broken rear
Insulting, and pursued us through the Deep,
With what compulsion and laborious flight
We sunk thus low? Th' ascent is easy, then;
Th' event is feared! Should we again provoke
Our stronger, some worse way his wrath may find
To our destruction, if there be in Hell
Fear to be worse destroyed! What can be worse
Than to dwell here, driven out from bliss, condemned
In this abhorred deep to utter woe!
Where pain of unextinguishable fire
Must exercise us without hope of end
The vassals of his anger, when the scourge
Inexorably, and the torturing hour,
Calls us to penance? More destroyed than thus,
We should be quite abolished, and expire.
What fear we then? what doubt we to incense
His utmost ire? which, to the height enraged,
Will either quite consume us, and reduce
To nothing this essential--happier far
Than miserable to have eternal being!--
Or, if our substance be indeed divine,
And cannot cease to be, we are at worst
On this side nothing; and by proof we feel
Our power sufficient to disturb his Heaven,
And with perpetual inroads to alarm,
Though inaccessible, his fatal throne:
Which, if not victory, is yet revenge."
He ended frowning, and his look denounced
Desperate revenge, and battle dangerous
To less than gods. On th' other side up rose
Belial, in act more graceful and humane.
A fairer person lost not Heaven; he seemed
For dignity composed, and high exploit.
But all was false and hollow; though his tongue
Dropped manna, and could make the worse appear
The better reason, to perplex and dash
Maturest counsels: for his thoughts were low--
To vice industrious, but to nobler deeds
Timorous and slothful. Yet he pleased the ear,
And with persuasive accent thus began:--
"I should be much for open war, O Peers,
As not behind in hate, if what was urged
Main reason to persuade immediate war
Did not dissuade me most, and seem to cast
Ominous conjecture on the whole success;
When he who most excels in fact of arms,
In what he counsels and in what excels
Mistrustful, grounds his courage on despair
And utter dissolution, as the scope
Of all his aim, after some dire revenge.
First, what revenge? The towers of Heaven are filled
With armed watch, that render all access
Impregnable: oft on the bodering Deep
Encamp their legions, or with obscure wing
Scout far and wide into the realm of Night,
Scorning surprise. Or, could we break our way
By force, and at our heels all Hell should rise
With blackest insurrection to confound
Heaven's purest light, yet our great Enemy,
All incorruptible, would on his throne
Sit unpolluted, and th' ethereal mould,
Incapable of stain, would soon expel
Her mischief, and purge off the baser fire,
Victorious. Thus repulsed, our final hope
Is flat despair: we must exasperate
Th' Almighty Victor to spend all his rage;
And that must end us; that must be our cure--
To be no more. Sad cure! for who would lose,
Though full of pain, this intellectual being,
Those thoughts that wander through eternity,
To perish rather, swallowed up and lost
In the wide womb of uncreated Night,
Devoid of sense and motion? And who knows,
Let this be good, whether our angry Foe
Can give it, or will ever? How he can
Is doubtful; that he never will is sure.
Will he, so wise, let loose at once his ire,
Belike through impotence or unaware,
To give his enemies their wish, and end
Them in his anger whom his anger saves
To punish endless? 'Wherefore cease we, then?'
Say they who counsel war; 'we are decreed,
Reserved, and destined to eternal woe;
Whatever doing, what can we suffer more,
What can we suffer worse?' Is this, then, worst--
Thus sitting, thus consulting, thus in arms?
What when we fled amain, pursued and struck
With Heaven's afflicting thunder, and besought
The Deep to shelter us? This Hell then seemed
A refuge from those wounds. Or when we lay
Chained on the burning lake? That sure was worse.
What if the breath that kindled those grim fires,
Awaked, should blow them into sevenfold rage,
And plunge us in the flames; or from above
Should intermitted vengeance arm again
His red right hand to plague us? What if all
Her stores were opened, and this firmament
Of Hell should spout her cataracts of fire,
Impendent horrors, threatening hideous fall
One day upon our heads; while we perhaps,
Designing or exhorting glorious war,
Caught in a fiery tempest, shall be hurled,
Each on his rock transfixed, the sport and prey
Or racking whirlwinds, or for ever sunk
Under yon boiling ocean, wrapt in chains,
There to converse with everlasting groans,
Unrespited, unpitied, unreprieved,
Ages of hopeless end? This would be worse.
War, therefore, open or concealed, alike
My voice dissuades; for what can force or guile
With him, or who deceive his mind, whose eye
Views all things at one view? He from Heaven's height
All these our motions vain sees and derides,
Not more almighty to resist our might
Than wise to frustrate all our plots and wiles.
Shall we, then, live thus vile--the race of Heaven
Thus trampled, thus expelled, to suffer here
Chains and these torments? Better these than worse,
By my advice; since fate inevitable
Subdues us, and omnipotent decree,
The Victor's will. To suffer, as to do,
Our strength is equal; nor the law unjust
That so ordains. This was at first resolved,
If we were wise, against so great a foe
Contending, and so doubtful what might fall.
I laugh when those who at the spear are bold
And venturous, if that fail them, shrink, and fear
What yet they know must follow--to endure
Exile, or igominy, or bonds, or pain,
The sentence of their Conqueror. This is now
Our doom; which if we can sustain and bear,
Our Supreme Foe in time may much remit
His anger, and perhaps, thus far removed,
Not mind us not offending, satisfied
With what is punished; whence these raging fires
Will slacken, if his breath stir not their flames.
Our purer essence then will overcome
Their noxious vapour; or, inured, not feel;
Or, changed at length, and to the place conformed
In temper and in nature, will receive
Familiar the fierce heat; and, void of pain,
This horror will grow mild, this darkness light;
Besides what hope the never-ending flight
Of future days may bring, what chance, what change
Worth waiting--since our present lot appears
For happy though but ill, for ill not worst,
If we procure not to ourselves more woe."
Thus Belial, with words clothed in reason's garb,
Counselled ignoble ease and peaceful sloth,
Not peace; and after him thus Mammon spake:--
"Either to disenthrone the King of Heaven
We war, if war be best, or to regain
Our own right lost. Him to unthrone we then
May hope, when everlasting Fate shall yield
To fickle Chance, and Chaos judge the strife.
The former, vain to hope, argues as vain
The latter; for what place can be for us
Within Heaven's bound, unless Heaven's Lord supreme
We overpower? Suppose he should relent
And publish grace to all, on promise made
Of new subjection; with what eyes could we
Stand in his presence humble, and receive
Strict laws imposed, to celebrate his throne
With warbled hyms, and to his Godhead sing
Forced hallelujahs, while he lordly sits
Our envied sovereign, and his altar breathes
Ambrosial odours and ambrosial flowers,
Our servile offerings? This must be our task
In Heaven, this our delight. How wearisome
Eternity so spent in worship paid
To whom we hate! Let us not then pursue,
By force impossible, by leave obtained
Unacceptable, though in Heaven, our state
Of splendid vassalage; but rather seek
Our own good from ourselves, and from our own
Live to ourselves, though in this vast recess,
Free and to none accountable, preferring
Hard liberty before the easy yoke
Of servile pomp. Our greatness will appear
Then most conspicuous when great things of small,
Useful of hurtful, prosperous of adverse,
We can create, and in what place soe'er
Thrive under evil, and work ease out of pain
Through labour and endurance. This deep world
Of darkness do we dread? How oft amidst
Thick clouds and dark doth Heaven's all-ruling Sire
Choose to reside, his glory unobscured,
And with the majesty of darkness round
Covers his throne, from whence deep thunders roar.
Mustering their rage, and Heaven resembles Hell!
As he our darkness, cannot we his light
Imitate when we please? This desert soil
Wants not her hidden lustre, gems and gold;
Nor want we skill or art from whence to raise
Magnificence; and what can Heaven show more?
Our torments also may, in length of time,
Become our elements, these piercing fires
As soft as now severe, our temper changed
Into their temper; which must needs remove
The sensible of pain. All things invite
To peaceful counsels, and the settled state
Of order, how in safety best we may
Compose our present evils, with regard
Of what we are and where, dismissing quite
All thoughts of war. Ye have what I advise."
He scarce had finished, when such murmur filled
Th' assembly as when hollow rocks retain
The sound of blustering winds, which all night long
Had roused the sea, now with hoarse cadence lull
Seafaring men o'erwatched, whose bark by chance
Or pinnace, anchors in a craggy bay
After the tempest. Such applause was heard
As Mammon ended, and his sentence pleased,
Advising peace: for such another field
They dreaded worse than Hell; so much the fear
Of thunder and the sword of Michael
Wrought still within them; and no less desire
To found this nether empire, which might rise,
By policy and long process of time,
In emulation opposite to Heaven.
Which when Beelzebub perceived--than whom,
Satan except, none higher sat--with grave
Aspect he rose, and in his rising seemed
A pillar of state. Deep on his front engraven
Deliberation sat, and public care;
And princely counsel in his face yet shone,
Majestic, though in ruin. Sage he stood
With Atlantean shoulders, fit to bear
The weight of mightiest monarchies; his look
Drew audience and attention still as night
Or summer's noontide air, while thus he spake:--
"Thrones and Imperial Powers, Offspring of Heaven,
Ethereal Virtues! or these titles now
Must we renounce, and, changing style, be called
Princes of Hell? for so the popular vote
Inclines--here to continue, and build up here
A growing empire; doubtless! while we dream,
And know not that the King of Heaven hath doomed
This place our dungeon, not our safe retreat
Beyond his potent arm, to live exempt
From Heaven's high jurisdiction, in new league
Banded against his throne, but to remain
In strictest bondage, though thus far removed,
Under th' inevitable curb, reserved
His captive multitude. For he, to be sure,
In height or depth, still first and last will reign
Sole king, and of his kingdom lose no part
By our revolt, but over Hell extend
His empire, and with iron sceptre rule
Us here, as with his golden those in Heaven.
What sit we then projecting peace and war?
War hath determined us and foiled with loss
Irreparable; terms of peace yet none
Vouchsafed or sought; for what peace will be given
To us enslaved, but custody severe,
And stripes and arbitrary punishment
Inflicted? and what peace can we return,
But, to our power, hostility and hate,
Untamed reluctance, and revenge, though slow,
Yet ever plotting how the Conqueror least
May reap his conquest, and may least rejoice
In doing what we most in suffering feel?
Nor will occasion want, nor shall we need
With dangerous expedition to invade
Heaven, whose high walls fear no assault or siege,
Or ambush from the Deep. What if we find
Some easier enterprise? There is a place
(If ancient and prophetic fame in Heaven
Err not)--another World, the happy seat
Of some new race, called Man, about this time
To be created like to us, though less
In power and excellence, but favoured more
Of him who rules above; so was his will
Pronounced among the Gods, and by an oath
That shook Heaven's whole circumference confirmed.
Thither let us bend all our thoughts, to learn
What creatures there inhabit, of what mould
Or substance, how endued, and what their power
And where their weakness: how attempted best,
By force of subtlety. Though Heaven be shut,
And Heaven's high Arbitrator sit secure
In his own strength, this place may lie exposed,
The utmost border of his kingdom, left
To their defence who hold it: here, perhaps,
Some advantageous act may be achieved
By sudden onset--either with Hell-fire
To waste his whole creation, or possess
All as our own, and drive, as we were driven,
The puny habitants; or, if not drive,
Seduce them to our party, that their God
May prove their foe, and with repenting hand
Abolish his own works. This would surpass
Common revenge, and interrupt his joy
In our confusion, and our joy upraise
In his disturbance; when his darling sons,
Hurled headlong to partake with us, shall curse
Their frail original, and faded bliss--
Faded so soon! Advise if this be worth
Attempting, or to sit in darkness here
Hatching vain empires." Thus beelzebub
Pleaded his devilish counsel--first devised
By Satan, and in part proposed: for whence,
But from the author of all ill, could spring
So deep a malice, to confound the race
Of mankind in one root, and Earth with Hell
To mingle and involve, done all to spite
The great Creator? But their spite still serves
His glory to augment. The bold design
Pleased highly those infernal States, and joy
Sparkled in all their eyes: with full assent
They vote: whereat his speech he thus renews:--
"Well have ye judged, well ended long debate,
Synod of Gods, and, like to what ye are,
Great things resolved, which from the lowest deep
Will once more lift us up, in spite of fate,
Nearer our ancient seat--perhaps in view
Of those bright confines, whence, with neighbouring arms,
And opportune excursion, we may chance
Re-enter Heaven; or else in some mild zone
Dwell, not unvisited of Heaven's fair light,
Secure, and at the brightening orient beam
Purge off this gloom: the soft delicious air,
To heal the scar of these corrosive fires,
Shall breathe her balm. But, first, whom shall we send
In search of this new World? whom shall we find
Sufficient? who shall tempt with wandering feet
The dark, unbottomed, infinite Abyss,
And through the palpable obscure find out
His uncouth way, or spread his airy flight,
Upborne with indefatigable wings
Over the vast abrupt, ere he arrive
The happy Isle? What strength, what art, can then
Suffice, or what evasion bear him safe,
Through the strict senteries and stations thick
Of Angels watching round? Here he had need
All circumspection: and we now no less
Choice in our suffrage; for on whom we send
The weight of all, and our last hope, relies."
This said, he sat; and expectation held
His look suspense, awaiting who appeared
To second, or oppose, or undertake
The perilous attempt. But all sat mute,
Pondering the danger with deep thoughts; and each
In other's countenance read his own dismay,
Astonished. None among the choice and prime
Of those Heaven-warring champions could be found
So hardy as to proffer or accept,
Alone, the dreadful voyage; till, at last,
Satan, whom now transcendent glory raised
Above his fellows, with monarchal pride
Conscious of highest worth, unmoved thus spake:--
"O Progeny of Heaven! Empyreal Thrones!
With reason hath deep silence and demur
Seized us, though undismayed. Long is the way
And hard, that out of Hell leads up to light.
Our prison strong, this huge convex of fire,
Outrageous to devour, immures us round
Ninefold; and gates of burning adamant,
Barred over us, prohibit all egress.
These passed, if any pass, the void profound
Of unessential Night receives him next,
Wide-gaping, and with utter loss of being
Threatens him, plunged in that abortive gulf.
If thence he scape, into whatever world,
Or unknown region, what remains him less
Than unknown dangers, and as hard escape?
But I should ill become this throne, O Peers,
And this imperial sovereignty, adorned
With splendour, armed with power, if aught proposed
And judged of public moment in the shape
Of difficulty or danger, could deter
Me from attempting. Wherefore do I assume
These royalties, and not refuse to reign,
Refusing to accept as great a share
Of hazard as of honour, due alike
To him who reigns, and so much to him due
Of hazard more as he above the rest
High honoured sits? Go, therefore, mighty Powers,
Terror of Heaven, though fallen; intend at home,
While here shall be our home, what best may ease
The present misery, and render Hell
More tolerable; if there be cure or charm
To respite, or deceive, or slack the pain
Of this ill mansion: intermit no watch
Against a wakeful foe, while I abroad
Through all the coasts of dark destruction seek
Deliverance for us all. This enterprise
None shall partake with me." Thus saying, rose
The Monarch, and prevented all reply;
Prudent lest, from his resolution raised,
Others among the chief might offer now,
Certain to be refused, what erst they feared,
And, so refused, might in opinion stand
His rivals, winning cheap the high repute
Which he through hazard huge must earn. But they
Dreaded not more th' adventure than his voice
Forbidding; and at once with him they rose.
Their rising all at once was as the sound
Of thunder heard remote. Towards him they bend
With awful reverence prone, and as a God
Extol him equal to the Highest in Heaven.
Nor failed they to express how much they praised
That for the general safety he despised
His own: for neither do the Spirits damned
Lose all their virtue; lest bad men should boast
Their specious deeds on earth, which glory excites,
Or close ambition varnished o'er with zeal.
Thus they their doubtful consultations dark
Ended, rejoicing in their matchless Chief:
As, when from mountain-tops the dusky clouds
Ascending, while the north wind sleeps, o'erspread
Heaven's cheerful face, the louring element
Scowls o'er the darkened landscape snow or shower,
If chance the radiant sun, with farewell sweet,
Extend his evening beam, the fields revive,
The birds their notes renew, and bleating herds
Attest their joy, that hill and valley rings.
O shame to men! Devil with devil damned
Firm concord holds; men only disagree
Of creatures rational, though under hope
Of heavenly grace, and, God proclaiming peace,
Yet live in hatred, enmity, and strife
Among themselves, and levy cruel wars
Wasting the earth, each other to destroy:
As if (which might induce us to accord)
Man had not hellish foes enow besides,
That day and night for his destruction wait!
The Stygian council thus dissolved; and forth
In order came the grand infernal Peers:
Midst came their mighty Paramount, and seemed
Alone th' antagonist of Heaven, nor less
Than Hell's dread Emperor, with pomp supreme,
And god-like imitated state: him round
A globe of fiery Seraphim enclosed
With bright emblazonry, and horrent arms.
Then of their session ended they bid cry
With trumpet's regal sound the great result:
Toward the four winds four speedy Cherubim
Put to their mouths the sounding alchemy,
By herald's voice explained; the hollow Abyss
Heard far adn wide, and all the host of Hell
With deafening shout returned them loud acclaim.
Thence more at ease their minds, and somewhat raised
By false presumptuous hope, the ranged Powers
Disband; and, wandering, each his several way
Pursues, as inclination or sad choice
Leads him perplexed, where he may likeliest find
Truce to his restless thoughts, and entertain
The irksome hours, till his great Chief return.
Part on the plain, or in the air sublime,
Upon the wing or in swift race contend,
As at th' Olympian games or Pythian fields;
Part curb their fiery steeds, or shun the goal
With rapid wheels, or fronted brigades form:
As when, to warn proud cities, war appears
Waged in the troubled sky, and armies rush
To battle in the clouds; before each van
Prick forth the airy knights, and couch their spears,
Till thickest legions close; with feats of arms
From either end of heaven the welkin burns.
Others, with vast Typhoean rage, more fell,
Rend up both rocks and hills, and ride the air
In whirlwind; Hell scarce holds the wild uproar:--
As when Alcides, from Oechalia crowned
With conquest, felt th' envenomed robe, and tore
Through pain up by the roots Thessalian pines,
And Lichas from the top of Oeta threw
Into th' Euboic sea. Others, more mild,
Retreated in a silent valley, sing
With notes angelical to many a harp
Their own heroic deeds, and hapless fall
By doom of battle, and complain that Fate
Free Virtue should enthrall to Force or Chance.
Their song was partial; but the harmony
(What could it less when Spirits immortal sing?)
Suspended Hell, and took with ravishment
The thronging audience. In discourse more sweet
(For Eloquence the Soul, Song charms the Sense)
Others apart sat on a hill retired,
In thoughts more elevate, and reasoned high
Of Providence, Foreknowledge, Will, and Fate--
Fixed fate, free will, foreknowledge absolute,
And found no end, in wandering mazes lost.
Of good and evil much they argued then,
Of happiness and final misery,
Passion and apathy, and glory and shame:
Vain wisdom all, and false philosophy!--
Yet, with a pleasing sorcery, could charm
Pain for a while or anguish, and excite
Fallacious hope, or arm th' obdured breast
With stubborn patience as with triple steel.
Another part, in squadrons and gross bands,
On bold adventure to discover wide
That dismal world, if any clime perhaps
Might yield them easier habitation, bend
Four ways their flying march, along the banks
Of four infernal rivers, that disgorge
Into the burning lake their baleful streams--
Abhorred Styx, the flood of deadly hate;
Sad Acheron of sorrow, black and deep;
Cocytus, named of lamentation loud
Heard on the rueful stream; fierce Phlegeton,
Whose waves of torrent fire inflame with rage.
Far off from these, a slow and silent stream,
Lethe, the river of oblivion, rolls
Her watery labyrinth, whereof who drinks
Forthwith his former state and being forgets--
Forgets both joy and grief, pleasure and pain.
Beyond this flood a frozen continent
Lies dark and wild, beat with perpetual storms
Of whirlwind and dire hail, which on firm land
Thaws not, but gathers heap, and ruin seems
Of ancient pile; all else deep snow and ice,
A gulf profound as that Serbonian bog
Betwixt Damiata and Mount Casius old,
Where armies whole have sunk: the parching air
Burns frore, and cold performs th' effect of fire.
Thither, by harpy-footed Furies haled,
At certain revolutions all the damned
Are brought; and feel by turns the bitter change
Of fierce extremes, extremes by change more fierce,
From beds of raging fire to starve in ice
Their soft ethereal warmth, and there to pine
Immovable, infixed, and frozen round
Periods of time,--thence hurried back to fire.
They ferry over this Lethean sound
Both to and fro, their sorrow to augment,
And wish and struggle, as they pass, to reach
The tempting stream, with one small drop to lose
In sweet forgetfulness all pain and woe,
All in one moment, and so near the brink;
But Fate withstands, and, to oppose th' attempt,
Medusa with Gorgonian terror guards
The ford, and of itself the water flies
All taste of living wight, as once it fled
The lip of Tantalus. Thus roving on
In confused march forlorn, th' adventurous bands,
With shuddering horror pale, and eyes aghast,
Viewed first their lamentable lot, and found
No rest. Through many a dark and dreary vale
They passed, and many a region dolorous,
O'er many a frozen, many a fiery alp,
Rocks, caves, lakes, fens, bogs, dens, and shades of death--
A universe of death, which God by curse
Created evil, for evil only good;
Where all life dies, death lives, and Nature breeds,
Perverse, all monstrous, all prodigious things,
Obominable, inutterable, and worse
Than fables yet have feigned or fear conceived,
Gorgons, and Hydras, and Chimeras dire.
Meanwhile the Adversary of God and Man,
Satan, with thoughts inflamed of highest design,
Puts on swift wings, and toward the gates of Hell
Explores his solitary flight: sometimes
He scours the right hand coast, sometimes the left;
Now shaves with level wing the deep, then soars
Up to the fiery concave towering high.
As when far off at sea a fleet descried
Hangs in the clouds, by equinoctial winds
Close sailing from Bengala, or the isles
Of Ternate and Tidore, whence merchants bring
Their spicy drugs; they on the trading flood,
Through the wide Ethiopian to the Cape,
Ply stemming nightly toward the pole: so seemed
Far off the flying Fiend. At last appear
Hell-bounds, high reaching to the horrid roof,
And thrice threefold the gates; three folds were brass,
Three iron, three of adamantine rock,
Impenetrable, impaled with circling fire,
Yet unconsumed. Before the gates there sat
On either side a formidable Shape.
The one seemed woman to the waist, and fair,
But ended foul in many a scaly fold,
Voluminous and vast--a serpent armed
With mortal sting. About her middle round
A cry of Hell-hounds never-ceasing barked
With wide Cerberean mouths full loud, and rung
A hideous peal; yet, when they list, would creep,
If aught disturbed their noise, into her womb,
And kennel there; yet there still barked and howled
Within unseen. Far less abhorred than these
Vexed Scylla, bathing in the sea that parts
Calabria from the hoarse Trinacrian shore;
Nor uglier follow the night-hag, when, called
In secret, riding through the air she comes,
Lured with the smell of infant blood, to dance
With Lapland witches, while the labouring moon
Eclipses at their charms. The other Shape--
If shape it might be called that shape had none
Distinguishable in member, joint, or limb;
Or substance might be called that shadow seemed,
For each seemed either--black it stood as Night,
Fierce as ten Furies, terrible as Hell,
And shook a dreadful dart: what seemed his head
The likeness of a kingly crown had on.
Satan was now at hand, and from his seat
The monster moving onward came as fast
With horrid strides; Hell trembled as he strode.
Th' undaunted Fiend what this might be admired--
Admired, not feared (God and his Son except,
Created thing naught valued he nor shunned),
And with disdainful look thus first began:--
"Whence and what art thou, execrable Shape,
That dar'st, though grim and terrible, advance
Thy miscreated front athwart my way
To yonder gates? Through them I mean to pass,
That be assured, without leave asked of thee.
Retire; or taste thy folly, and learn by proof,
Hell-born, not to contend with Spirits of Heaven."
To whom the Goblin, full of wrath, replied:--
"Art thou that traitor Angel? art thou he,
Who first broke peace in Heaven and faith, till then
Unbroken, and in proud rebellious arms
Drew after him the third part of Heaven's sons,
Conjured against the Highest--for which both thou
And they, outcast from God, are here condemned
To waste eternal days in woe and pain?
And reckon'st thou thyself with Spirits of Heaven
Hell-doomed, and breath'st defiance here and scorn,
Where I reign king, and, to enrage thee more,
Thy king and lord? Back to thy punishment,
False fugitive; and to thy speed add wings,
Lest with a whip of scorpions I pursue
Thy lingering, or with one stroke of this dart
Strange horror seize thee, and pangs unfelt before."
So spake the grisly Terror, and in shape,
So speaking and so threatening, grew tenfold,
More dreadful and deform. On th' other side,
Incensed with indignation, Satan stood
Unterrified, and like a comet burned,
That fires the length of Ophiuchus huge
In th' arctic sky, and from his horrid hair
Shakes pestilence and war. Each at the head
Levelled his deadly aim; their fatal hands
No second stroke intend; and such a frown
Each cast at th' other as when two black clouds,
With heaven's artillery fraught, came rattling on
Over the Caspian,--then stand front to front
Hovering a space, till winds the signal blow
To join their dark encounter in mid-air.
So frowned the mighty combatants that Hell
Grew darker at their frown; so matched they stood;
For never but once more was wither like
To meet so great a foe. And now great deeds
Had been achieved, whereof all Hell had rung,
Had not the snaky Sorceress, that sat
Fast by Hell-gate and kept the fatal key,
Risen, and with hideous outcry rushed between.
"O father, what intends thy hand," she cried,
"Against thy only son? What fury, O son,
Possesses thee to bend that mortal dart
Against thy father's head? And know'st for whom?
For him who sits above, and laughs the while
At thee, ordained his drudge to execute
Whate'er his wrath, which he calls justice, bids--
His wrath, which one day will destroy ye both!"
She spake, and at her words the hellish Pest
Forbore: then these to her Satan returned:--
"So strange thy outcry, and thy words so strange
Thou interposest, that my sudden hand,
Prevented, spares to tell thee yet by deeds
What it intends, till first I know of thee
What thing thou art, thus double-formed, and why,
In this infernal vale first met, thou call'st
Me father, and that phantasm call'st my son.
I know thee not, nor ever saw till now
Sight more detestable than him and thee."
T' whom thus the Portress of Hell-gate replied:--
"Hast thou forgot me, then; and do I seem
Now in thine eye so foul?--once deemed so fair
In Heaven, when at th' assembly, and in sight
Of all the Seraphim with thee combined
In bold conspiracy against Heaven's King,
All on a sudden miserable pain
Surprised thee, dim thine eyes and dizzy swum
In darkness, while thy head flames thick and fast
Threw forth, till on the left side opening wide,
Likest to thee in shape and countenance bright,
Then shining heavenly fair, a goddess armed,
Out of thy head I sprung. Amazement seized
All th' host of Heaven; back they recoiled afraid
At first, and called me Sin, and for a sign
Portentous held me; but, familiar grown,
I pleased, and with attractive graces won
The most averse--thee chiefly, who, full oft
Thyself in me thy perfect image viewing,
Becam'st enamoured; and such joy thou took'st
With me in secret that my womb conceived
A growing burden. Meanwhile war arose,
And fields were fought in Heaven: wherein remained
(For what could else?) to our Almighty Foe
Clear victory; to our part loss and rout
Through all the Empyrean. Down they fell,
Driven headlong from the pitch of Heaven, down
Into this Deep; and in the general fall
I also: at which time this powerful key
Into my hands was given, with charge to keep
These gates for ever shut, which none can pass
Without my opening. Pensive here I sat
Alone; but long I sat not, till my womb,
Pregnant by thee, and now excessive grown,
Prodigious motion felt and rueful throes.
At last this odious offspring whom thou seest,
Thine own begotten, breaking violent way,
Tore through my entrails, that, with fear and pain
Distorted, all my nether shape thus grew
Transformed: but he my inbred enemy
Forth issued, brandishing his fatal dart,
Made to destroy. I fled, and cried out Death!
Hell trembled at the hideous name, and sighed
From all her caves, and back resounded Death!
I fled; but he pursued (though more, it seems,
Inflamed with lust than rage), and, swifter far,
Me overtook, his mother, all dismayed,
And, in embraces forcible and foul
Engendering with me, of that rape begot
These yelling monsters, that with ceaseless cry
Surround me, as thou saw'st--hourly conceived
And hourly born, with sorrow infinite
To me; for, when they list, into the womb
That bred them they return, and howl, and gnaw
My bowels, their repast; then, bursting forth
Afresh, with conscious terrors vex me round,
That rest or intermission none I find.
Before mine eyes in opposition sits
Grim Death, my son and foe, who set them on,
And me, his parent, would full soon devour
For want of other prey, but that he knows
His end with mine involved, and knows that I
Should prove a bitter morsel, and his bane,
Whenever that shall be: so Fate pronounced.
But thou, O father, I forewarn thee, shun
His deadly arrow; neither vainly hope
To be invulnerable in those bright arms,
Through tempered heavenly; for that mortal dint,
Save he who reigns above, none can resist."
She finished; and the subtle Fiend his lore
Soon learned, now milder, and thus answered smooth:--
"Dear daughter--since thou claim'st me for thy sire,
And my fair son here show'st me, the dear pledge
Of dalliance had with thee in Heaven, and joys
Then sweet, now sad to mention, through dire change
Befallen us unforeseen, unthought-of--know,
I come no enemy, but to set free
From out this dark and dismal house of pain
Both him and thee, and all the heavenly host
Of Spirits that, in our just pretences armed,
Fell with us from on high. From them I go
This uncouth errand sole, and one for all
Myself expose, with lonely steps to tread
Th' unfounded Deep, and through the void immense
To search, with wandering quest, a place foretold
Should be--and, by concurring signs, ere now
Created vast and round--a place of bliss
In the purlieus of Heaven; and therein placed
A race of upstart creatures, to supply
Perhaps our vacant room, though more removed,
Lest Heaven, surcharged with potent multitude,
Might hap to move new broils. Be this, or aught
Than this more secret, now designed, I haste
To know; and, this once known, shall soon return,
And bring ye to the place where thou and Death
Shall dwell at ease, and up and down unseen
Wing silently the buxom air, embalmed
With odours. There ye shall be fed and filled
Immeasurably; all things shall be your prey."
He ceased; for both seemed highly pleased, and Death
Grinned horrible a ghastly smile, to hear
His famine should be filled, and blessed his maw
Destined to that good hour. No less rejoiced
His mother bad, and thus bespake her sire:--
"The key of this infernal Pit, by due
And by command of Heaven's all-powerful King,
I keep, by him forbidden to unlock
These adamantine gates; against all force
Death ready stands to interpose his dart,
Fearless to be o'ermatched by living might.
But what owe I to his commands above,
Who hates me, and hath hither thrust me down
Into this gloom of Tartarus profound,
To sit in hateful office here confined,
Inhabitant of Heaven and heavenly born--
Here in perpetual agony and pain,
With terrors and with clamours compassed round
Of mine own brood, that on my bowels feed?
Thou art my father, thou my author, thou
My being gav'st me; whom should I obey
But thee? whom follow? Thou wilt bring me soon
To that new world of light and bliss, among
The gods who live at ease, where I shall reign
At thy right hand voluptuous, as beseems
Thy daughter and thy darling, without end."
Thus saying, from her side the fatal key,
Sad instrument of all our woe, she took;
And, towards the gate rolling her bestial train,
Forthwith the huge portcullis high up-drew,
Which, but herself, not all the Stygian Powers
Could once have moved; then in the key-hole turns
Th' intricate wards, and every bolt and bar
Of massy iron or solid rock with ease
Unfastens. On a sudden open fly,
With impetuous recoil and jarring sound,
Th' infernal doors, and on their hinges grate
Harsh thunder, that the lowest bottom shook
Of Erebus. She opened; but to shut
Excelled her power: the gates wide open stood,
That with extended wings a bannered host,
Under spread ensigns marching, mibht pass through
With horse and chariots ranked in loose array;
So wide they stood, and like a furnace-mouth
Cast forth redounding smoke and ruddy flame.
Before their eyes in sudden view appear
The secrets of the hoary Deep--a dark
Illimitable ocean, without bound,
Without dimension; where length, breadth, and height,
And time, and place, are lost; where eldest Night
And Chaos, ancestors of Nature, hold
Eternal anarchy, amidst the noise
Of endless wars, and by confusion stand.
For Hot, Cold, Moist, and Dry, four champions fierce,
Strive here for mastery, and to battle bring
Their embryon atoms: they around the flag
Of each his faction, in their several clans,
Light-armed or heavy, sharp, smooth, swift, or slow,
Swarm populous, unnumbered as the sands
Of Barca or Cyrene's torrid soil,
Levied to side with warring winds, and poise
Their lighter wings. To whom these most adhere
He rules a moment: Chaos umpire sits,
And by decision more embroils the fray
By which he reigns: next him, high arbiter,
Chance governs all. Into this wild Abyss,
The womb of Nature, and perhaps her grave,
Of neither sea, nor shore, nor air, nor fire,
But all these in their pregnant causes mixed
Confusedly, and which thus must ever fight,
Unless th' Almighty Maker them ordain
His dark materials to create more worlds--
Into this wild Abyss the wary Fiend
Stood on the brink of Hell and looked a while,
Pondering his voyage; for no narrow frith
He had to cross. Nor was his ear less pealed
With noises loud and ruinous (to compare
Great things with small) than when Bellona storms
With all her battering engines, bent to rase
Some capital city; or less than if this frame
Of Heaven were falling, and these elements
In mutiny had from her axle torn
The steadfast Earth. At last his sail-broad vans
He spread for flight, and, in the surging smoke
Uplifted, spurns the ground; thence many a league,
As in a cloudy chair, ascending rides
Audacious; but, that seat soon failing, meets
A vast vacuity. All unawares,
Fluttering his pennons vain, plumb-down he drops
Ten thousand fathom deep, and to this hour
Down had been falling, had not, by ill chance,
The strong rebuff of some tumultuous cloud,
Instinct with fire and nitre, hurried him
As many miles aloft. That fury stayed--
Quenched in a boggy Syrtis, neither sea,
Nor good dry land--nigh foundered, on he fares,
Treading the crude consistence, half on foot,
Half flying; behoves him now both oar and sail.
As when a gryphon through the wilderness
With winged course, o'er hill or moory dale,
Pursues the Arimaspian, who by stealth
Had from his wakeful custody purloined
The guarded gold; so eagerly the Fiend
O'er bog or steep, through strait, rough, dense, or rare,
With head, hands, wings, or feet, pursues his way,
And swims, or sinks, or wades, or creeps, or flies.
At length a universal hubbub wild
Of stunning sounds, and voices all confused,
Borne through the hollow dark, assaults his ear
With loudest vehemence. Thither he plies
Undaunted, to meet there whatever Power
Or Spirit of the nethermost Abyss
Might in that noise reside, of whom to ask
Which way the nearest coast of darkness lies
Bordering on light; when straight behold the throne
Of Chaos, and his dark pavilion spread
Wide on the wasteful Deep! With him enthroned
Sat sable-vested Night, eldest of things,
The consort of his reign; and by them stood
Orcus and Ades, and the dreaded name
Of Demogorgon; Rumour next, and Chance,
And Tumult, and Confusion, all embroiled,
And Discord with a thousand various mouths.
T' whom Satan, turning boldly, thus:--"Ye Powers
And Spirtis of this nethermost Abyss,
Chaos and ancient Night, I come no spy
With purpose to explore or to disturb
The secrets of your realm; but, by constraint
Wandering this darksome desert, as my way
Lies through your spacious empire up to light,
Alone and without guide, half lost, I seek,
What readiest path leads where your gloomy bounds
Confine with Heaven; or, if some other place,
From your dominion won, th' Ethereal King
Possesses lately, thither to arrive
I travel this profound. Direct my course:
Directed, no mean recompense it brings
To your behoof, if I that region lost,
All usurpation thence expelled, reduce
To her original darkness and your sway
(Which is my present journey), and once more
Erect the standard there of ancient Night.
Yours be th' advantage all, mine the revenge!"
Thus Satan; and him thus the Anarch old,
With faltering speech and visage incomposed,
Answered:  "I know thee, stranger, who thou art--  ***
That mighty leading Angel, who of late
Made head against Heaven's King, though overthrown.
I saw and heard; for such a numerous host
Fled not in silence through the frighted Deep,
With ruin upon ruin, rout on rout,
Confusion worse confounded; and Heaven-gates
Poured out by millions her victorious bands,
Pursuing. I upon my frontiers here
Keep residence; if all I can will serve
That little which is left so to defend,
Encroached on still through our intestine broils
Weakening the sceptre of old Night: first, Hell,
Your dungeon, stretching far and wide beneath;
Now lately Heaven and Earth, another world
Hung o'er my realm, linked in a golden chain
To that side Heaven from whence your legions fell!
If that way be your walk, you have not far;
So much the nearer danger. Go, and speed;
Havoc, and spoil, and ruin, are my gain."
He ceased; and Satan stayed not to reply,
But, glad that now his sea should find a shore,
With fresh alacrity and force renewed
Springs upward, like a pyramid of fire,
Into the wild expanse, and through the shock
Of fighting elements, on all sides round
Environed, wins his way; harder beset
And more endangered than when Argo passed
Through Bosporus betwixt the justling rocks,
Or when Ulysses on the larboard shunned
Charybdis, and by th' other whirlpool steered.
So he with difficulty and labour hard
Moved on, with difficulty and labour he;
But, he once passed, soon after, when Man fell,
Strange alteration! Sin and Death amain,
Following his track (such was the will of Heaven)
Paved after him a broad and beaten way
Over the dark Abyss, whose boiling gulf
Tamely endured a bridge of wondrous length,
From Hell continued, reaching th' utmost orb
Of this frail World; by which the Spirits perverse
With easy intercourse pass to and fro
To tempt or punish mortals, except whom
God and good Angels guard by special grace.
But now at last the sacred influence
Of light appears, and from the walls of Heaven
Shoots far into the bosom of dim Night
A glimmering dawn. Here Nature first begins
Her farthest verge, and Chaos to retire,
As from her outmost works, a broken foe,
With tumult less and with less hostile din;
That Satan with less toil, and now with ease,
Wafts on the calmer wave by dubious light,
And, like a weather-beaten vessel, holds
Gladly the port, though shrouds and tackle torn;
Or in the emptier waste, resembling air,
Weighs his spread wings, at leisure to behold
Far off th' empyreal Heaven, extended wide
In circuit, undetermined square or round,
With opal towers and battlements adorned
Of living sapphire, once his native seat;
And, fast by, hanging in a golden chain,
This pendent World, in bigness as a star
Of smallest magnitude close by the moon.
Thither, full fraught with mischievous revenge,
Accursed, and in a cursed hour, he hies.

Higgledy piggeldy
Archangel Rafael,
Speaking of Satan's re-
Bellion from God:
"Chap was decidedly
Turgiversational,
Given to lewdness and
Rodomontade."

I had spent the night in the watch-house --
My head was the size of three --
So I went and asked the chemist
To fix up a drink for me;
And he brewed it from various bottles
With soda and plenty of ice,
With something that smelt like lemon,
And something that seemed like spice.
It fell on my parching palate
Like the dew on a sunbaked plain,
And my system began to flourish
Like the grass in the soft spring rain;
It wandered throughout my being,
Suffusing my soul with rest,
And I felt as I "scoffed" that liquid
That life had a new-found zest.
I have been on the razzle-dazzle
Full many a time since then
But I never could get the chemist
To brew me that drink again.
He says he's forgotten the notion --
'Twas only by chance it came --
He's tried me with various liquids
But oh! they are not the same.
We have sought, but we sought it vainly,
That one lost drink divine;
We have sampled his various bottles,
But somehow they don't combine:
Yet I know when I cross the River
And stand on the Golden Shore
I shall meet with an angel chemist
To brew me that drink once more.

Some say the spot is banned; that the pillar Cross-and-Hand
Attests to a deed of hell;
But of else than of bale is the mystic tale
That ancient Vale-folk tell.
Ere Cernel's Abbey ceased hereabout there dwelt a priest,
(In later life sub-prior
Of the brotherhood there, whose bones are now bare
In the field that was Cernel choir).
One night in his cell at the foot of yon dell
The priest heard a frequent cry:
"Go, father, in haste to the cot on the waste,
And shrive a man waiting to die."
Said the priest in a shout to the caller without,
"The night howls, the tree-trunks bow;
One may barely by day track so rugged a way,
And can I then do so now?"
No further word from the dark was heard,
And the priest moved never a limb;
And he slept and dreamed; till a Visage seemed
To frown from Heaven at him.
In a sweat he arose; and the storm shrieked shrill,
And smote as in savage joy;
While High-Stoy trees twanged to Bubb-Down Hill,
And Bubb-Down to High-Stoy.
There seemed not a holy thing in hail,
Nor shape of light or love,
From the Abbey north of Blackmore Vale
To the Abbey south thereof.
Yet he plodded thence through the dark immense,
And with many a stumbling stride
Through copse and briar climbed nigh and nigher
To the cot and the sick man's side.
When he would have unslung the Vessels uphung
To his arm in the steep ascent,
He made loud moan: the Pyx was gone
Of the Blessed Sacrament.
Then in dolorous dread he beat his head:
"No earthly prize or pelf
Is the thing I've lost in tempest tossed,
But the Body of Christ Himself!"
He thought of the Visage his dream revealed,
And turned towards whence he came,
Hands groping the ground along foot-track and field,
And head in a heat of shame.
Till here on the hill, betwixt vill and vill,
He noted a clear straight ray
Stretching down from the sky to a spot hard by,
Which shone with the light of day.
And gathered around the illumined ground
Were common beasts and rare,
All kneeling at gaze, and in pause profound
Attent on an object there.
'Twas the Pyx, unharmed 'mid the circling rows
Of Blackmore's hairy throng,
Whereof were oxen, sheep, and does,
And hares from the brakes among;
And badgers grey, and conies keen,
And squirrels of the tree,
And many a member seldom seen
Of Nature's family.
The ireful winds that scoured and swept
Through coppice, clump, and dell,
Within that holy circle slept
Calm as in hermit's cell.
Then the priest bent likewise to the sod
And thanked the Lord of Love,
And Blessed Mary, Mother of God,
And all the saints above.
And turning straight with his priceless freight,
He reached the dying one,
Whose passing sprite had been stayed for the rite
Without which bliss hath none.
And when by grace the priest won place,
And served the Abbey well,
He reared this stone to mark where shone
That midnight miracle.

Before you arrived
Love was just a four letter word
You gave definition

Falling in love with love,
There's nothing like this,
Become like someone you love,
Is what I hope for and miss.
My love is lonely tonight,
When the stars shine on so bright,
What is for me now right,
Is perhaps all out of sight?
Falling for someone like you,
Is it just impossible?
Why is my heart so blue?
Am I just another fool?
The night is ascending,
Dark hours coming in soon,
My wishes comprehending
In shadows from the moon.
Falling in love with love,
There's nothing like this,
Become like the one you love,
Is it impossible to wish?
Now in this gleaming light,
Perhaps I've lost my flight,
But I shall hold on so tight,
Never give up on that fight.

Of all of God's creation
I love you foremost
Tower of inspiration
And kindness utmost
Providing motivation
Giving me support
Helping ease frustration
With friendly comfort
I'm frozen by your beauty
Melted with your touch
In your arms I long to be
I love you so much
Even after many a year
The love of my life
You're the one I hold most dear
Blest you are my wife
Written for and dedicated to my beautiful wife, who I now understand why, I wish both you and I would have known, but it was all for the best, it was all part of His plan. I'm sorry, forgive me.
© 2011

The time will come
when, with elation
you will greet yourself arriving
at your own door, in your own mirror
and each will smile at the other's welcome,
and say, sit here. Eat.
You will love again the stranger who was your self.
Give wine. Give bread. Give back your heart
to itself, to the stranger who has loved you
all your life, whom you ignored
for another, who knows you by heart.
Take down the love letters from the bookshelf,
the photographs, the desperate notes,
peel your own image from the mirror.
Sit. Feast on your life.

I can not fathom, the reasons
nor understand the significance
why does love just blossoms
in the garden of the heart's stance
and grows abundantly
at any given chance
Love I suppose, is freedom
of the heart and soul
It exists to sooth boredom
and brings zest to all
No matter what it does
Its nativity is a call
For love is love
Boundless and true

love...
love...
love...
love...
love. ..
love...
love...
love...love...love... love...love..
love...love......love.....lo ve.......
love.......love.......love...... ..............love
love...............                                            love/...............
love............                                    love.............love
love.................... ...love..................love
love.....                                                                     love...
love....                                                              love....
love......                                                 love........
love...                                       love........
love....                               love.....
love....                    love....
love....        love....
love.....love
love ...love...love...love..
love...
love...
love...
love...love...love....love...
love. ...
love....
love....
love....
love.. ..love...love....love....

Am I sick cos I hate to hate you,
You made me hate you,
Let myself hate you,
When it's all your fault,
...Cos you made me love you,
Yeah you made me hate to love you,
Now I hate myself.
So twist through time,
If you ever look back...
Admit you used me like the other damn Jacks!
So all that time you were lying?
All that time I was a fool?
Now this time I lay dying,
Drowning in this apathy pool,
These salted tears the gullable shed,
Well I've shed mine,
With guilt and dread,
Hear the voices,
Conscience in my head,
Now I can't trust it,
My conscience's dead.
Bittersweet, bitterweet tears run down,
All that time, I choked, I drowned,
I bled these thoughts again and again,
In my mind again, and again...

When I love you so, then I look at your eyes
Love can be anything when you are in my arms
My love, I love you more than anything in this world
Let me get into your heart to give my love that I have
When I love you so, then I feel your body language
Love can be more than a love when you love me so
My love, I love you as much as you could do
Let me get into your heart to give my power that I have
When I love you so, then I hear your heart beats
Love can be true when you touch me with your soul
My love, I love you the way you love me
Let me get into your heart to give my life that I have
Ravi Sathasivam / Sri Lanka
Copyright @2006 Ravi Sathasivam

The measure of love, in truth, is this:
To treasure each sigh, close by, then kiss!
I've revelled each girl I yearn,
Just to discern
The measure of love!
Soft embraces, gazes...
In search for one true friend...
Let go... then watching love grow...
Then lips pressed tight, just right,
As if our two hearts said, 'Hello! '
Love prays this is so...
The measure is true in gentlemen...
Right out of the blue! So who knows when?
It's meant to astound you, too...
So you can view
The measure of love!

Into the dark, dank cellar
I lead you by the hand
towards a marble alter
laid with crimson sheets,
surrounded by cold candles
winking their naked eyes.
I feel you shiver against me
as I gently lay you down,
enter your mind
and read your soul.
You are not, yet, ready
to embrace this open flame.
The dim light flickers,
you fall into my eyes,
softly you sigh my name.
As your will evaporates
I slowly enter your skin
awaiting that first, sweet thrill.
Hot liquid fire burns my lips,
yet warms my heart.
Uncovering your dreams
in each anxious beat
I see your desire for me,
I hear your pain.
Alas, my love,
alone I choose to wander
as warm, pleading hands
chill my blood.
You grow pale now,
all life slips from your eyes
which seem to beg me
to set you free.
Don't cry, my sweet,
I fail to hear that naked plea
over the steady pleasure beat
you have given me.
11/11/08
* thanks for switching on the light in the think-tank on this one, Captain Jack

O Lust! you're burning holes in our affair.
We lost our brazen face without a care-
Flaunting all in front of those who scowled,
Laughing at the doleful - e'er we howled!
Ironically, our sneering turned inside
To out the damage, tear apart our pride.
We saw we'd fallen for the devil's dust!
So let's in shame the blade to take and thrust!
Copyright © Mark R Slaughter 2009
< br>
Lust lust lust lust lust

I was lost 6 months ago
It was lust that drove my soul
I couldn't controll...
what happened that night
What a loss I say to you
It wasn't love
but why not try something new?
Why judge someone you don't know?
Just open your mind and go with the flow
But no...
You had left so many words unspoken
I have questions, but your mind still isn't open
What a loss I say to you

LOVE OR LUST.?
i did everything i could
to take away ur frown
LOVE OR LUST.?
u got wat u wanted even
tho it brought me down
LOVE OR LUST.?
i stayed by ur side thought
good nd bad times
LOVE OR LUST.?
u left me for the next best
thing
LOVE OR LUST.?
i never took u for granted
no1 other then u was on my
mind
LOVE OR LUST.?
every other girl other then
me was on ur mind
LOVE OR LUST.?
to me the sex ment something
LOVE OR LUST.?
to u it was just sex or u wouldnt
of left me for another hoe
LOVE OR LUST.?
when i told u i loved u i
looked u in the eye nd ment it
LOVE OR LUST.?
when utold me u loved me it was
a joke juss ta get wat u wanted
LOVE OR LUST.?

Be she a metal, coal or oil,
No woman is immune to combustion of lust.
Intensity and duration of flame determine.
Woman is chaste by force.
Lust and fire are consumers.
16.10.2001, Pakd

lust is a passionate desire. When I lust I cant to be tamed you think SEX but I think LIFE.......nobody can stop you from lust more you lust life more you become he who is untamed not worrying about the opinion of others but only of your own. For you are your own worst enemy, and I am that enemy that will stop at no end to defeat my offenders.
Spadez

My body yearns for you, craving your hungry touch.
Igniting a fire within me I never wanted you so much.
My passion continues to bulid, You take me to the very top
Lost in sheer ecstacy, I never want you to stop.
Waves and waves of pleasure coarse through my  hungry veins
Escalating me even higher, the animal so hard to tame.
You play my body like an instument, a genius at your craft
Strumming with delicate ease, every note right on it's path.
Climbing even higher, we finally reach the peak.
Hanging  on with all my might, I can harldy speak.
My body starts to tremble and shake with pure delight.
Traveling to pleasure land, what a way to spend the night

Bizarre déité, brune comme les nuits,
Au parfum mélangé de musc et de havane,
Oeuvre de quelque obi, le Faust de la savane,
Sorcière au flanc d'ébène, enfant des noirs minuits,
Je préfère au constance, à l'opium, au nuits,
L'élixir de ta bouche où l'amour se pavane;
Quand vers toi mes désirs partent en caravane,
Tes yeux sont la citerne où boivent mes ennuis.
Par ces deux grands yeux noirs, soupiraux de ton âme,
Ô démon sans pitié! verse-moi moins de flamme;
Je ne suis pas le Styx pour t'embrasser neuf fois,
Hélas! et je ne puis, Mégère libertine,
Pour briser ton courage et te mettre aux abois,
Dans l'enfer de ton lit devenir Proserpine!
Unslakeable Lust
Singular deity, brown as the nights,
Scented with the perfume of Havana and musk,
Work of some obeah, Faust of the savanna,
Witch with ebony flanks, child of the black midnight,
I prefer to constance, to opium, to nuits,
The nectar of your mouth upon which love parades;
When toward you my desires set out in caravan,
Your eyes are the cistern that gives drink to my cares.
Through those two great black eyes, the outlets of your soul,
O pitiless demon! pour upon me less flame;
I'm not the River Styx to embrace you nine times,
Alas! and I cannot, licentious Megaera,
To break your spirit and bring you to bay
In the hell of your bed turn into Proserpine!
— Translated by William Aggeler
Sed non Satiata
Strange goddess, brown as evening to the sight,
Whose scent is half of musk, half of havanah,
Work of some obi, Faust of the Savanah,
Ebony witch, and daughter of the night.
By far preferred to troth, or drugs, or sleep,
Love vaunts the red elixir of your mouth.
My caravan of longings seeks in drouth
Your eyes, the wells at which my cares drink deep.
Through those black eyes, by which your soul respires,
Pitiless demon! pour less scorching fires.
I am no Styx nine times with flame to wed.
Nor can I turn myself to Proserpine
To break your spell, Megera libertine!
Within the dark inferno of your bed.
— Translated by Roy Campbell
Sed Non Satiata
Dusky as tropic nights, O bizarre deity,
Redolent of havana, musk and cordovan,
What obeah man or Faust of the Caribbean,
Wrought you, child-witch of night, with flanks of ebony?
Better than opium or Constanta. Wine or Nuits,
Your nectar mouth where Love swoons in a slow pavane,
When my desires set forth, a serried caravan,
Your eyes are the twin wells where I can slake ennui.
From out these wide black eyes which are your spirit's vent,
Heap fires less fierce upon me. O impenitent,
I am no tireless Styx to gird you nine times nine,
I am no lustful Fury to exhaust your lust,
To break your vigor or to make you bite the dust
Or in your bed's hell turn into a Proserpine.
— Translated by Jacques LeClercq
Sed Non Satiata
Strange deity, brown as nights,
Whose perfume is mixed with musk and Havanah,
Magical creation, Faust of the savanna,
Sorceress with the ebony thighs, child of black midnights,
I prefer to African wines, to opium, to burgundy,
The elixir of your mouth where love parades itself;
When my desires leave in caravan for you,
Your eyes are the reservoir where my cares drink.
From those two great black eyes, chimneys of our spirit,
O pitiless demon, throw out less flame at me;
I am no Styx to clasp you nine times,
Nor can I, alas, dissolute shrew,
To break your courage, bring you to bay,
Become any Proserpine in the hell of your bed!
— Translated by Geoffrey Wagner

The lust for power is an addiction the Government their own praises do sing
And rubbish their main opposition as to Government they try to cling
The voters bombarded with propaganda right up until election day
The true fact of all politicians is they seldom do mean what they say
The winners take all of the glory and the winners they do celebrate
The prize it is great and worth lying for that's how they feel those who wish to rule the State
The lust for power is an addiction and not a harmless addiction 'twould seem
Without such power some people feel worthless and suffer of low self esteem
Some people become so power hungry that power to their egos is fuel
They feel it is their right to Govern that they have been born to rule
The Opposition as bad as the Government they too want power in the worst way
Any respect to their political opponents they have no desire for to pay
It is all about power and their egos power to them is the best thing of all
Their pride to them is all that matter though pride it can come before a fall.

Flute music is coming when I am writing this poem;
The sweet music is being rendered by a flute vendor!
Flute music reminds all of the hero of Bhagavad-Gita
Who proposed the policy of nonattachment in life!
Marriages are fixed in heaven many say since long time
But why are some going for divorces after the marriage?
Love or arranged marriages should be based on love;
But too much attachment finding faults ends in divorces!
Nothing is perfect in the world let alone love and marriage;
What is more important is love to be cherished as humans
So that relations would last longer making happier life here;
Critically seeing differences one cannot find peace of mind.
Bond of marriages is supposed to last till the end of life
But not to suffer by marriages till the end of life in the world!

The first retainer
he gave to her
was a golden
wedding ring.
The second--late at night
we woke up,
leaned over on an elbow,
and kissed her.
The third and the last--
he died with
and gave up loving
and lived with her.

Lord, living, here are we
As fast united, yet
As when our hands and hearts by Thee
Together first were knit,
And, in a thankful song,
Now sing we will Thy praise,
For, that Thou dost as well prolong
Our loving as our days.
Together we have now
Begun another year;
But how much time Thou wilt allow
Thou mak'st it not appear.
We, therefore, do implore
That live and love we may,
Still so, as if but one day more
Together we should stay.
Let each of other's wealth
Preserve a faithful care,
And of each other's joy and health,
As if one soul we were.
Such conscience let us make,
Each other not to grieve,
As if we, daily, were to take
Our everlasting-leave.
The frowardness that springs
From our corrupted kind,
Or from those troublous outward things,
Which may distract the mind,
Permit Thou not, O Lord,
Our constant love to shake;
Or to disturb our true accord,
Or make our hearts to ache.
But let these frailties prove
Affection's exercize;
And that discretion teach our love
Which wins the noblest prize.
So Time which wears away
And ruins all things else
Shall fix our love on Thee for aye
In Whom perfection dwells.

Love and marriage
Love and marriage
Go together
Like ice cream and cabbage
And i'll tell you, brother
If she don't like sex
Just blame the mother.

Fades the moonlight on the sea,
And the dawn is coming in —
What will this day bring for me,
This of all days, Evelyn?
Ah! to-day our hands we plight;
Life or death is in the vow;
All that earth knows of delight
Or of grief is round me now —
While the dawn-light limns the shore,
And thou in thy lonely sleep
Dream'st thy maiden dreams before
Hymen's mystery shall steep
Thy heart's fancies in mine own,
And the pulse of passion stir
With the esctasy that's known
Only to Love's worshipper.

First, marriage should be love
all encompassing, total, and free.
Love that grows stronger each day
soft murmurs of Thee, Thee, Thee.
Second, marriage should be sacrifice
giving of self, regardless of reward.
Gift gladly given, with open heart
shielded from life's harsh sword.
Third, marriage should be commitment
utter loyalty, deep to the bone.
Absolutely, no questions asked
faithfully promised, never alone.
Lastly, marriage should be forever
family bonded, yet all still free.
Lives joined with love, sacrifice, and commitment
an eternity promised with -
Thee, Thee, Thee

In seed time learn, in harvest teach, in winter enjoy.
Drive your cart and your plow over the bones of the dead.
The road of excess leads to the palace of wisdom.
Prudence is a rich, ugly old maid courted by Incapacity.
He who desires but acts not, breeds pestilence.
The cut worm forgives the plow.
Dip him in the river who loves water.
A fool sees not the same tree that a wise man sees.
He whose face gives no light, shall never become a star.
Eternity is in love with the productions of time.
The busy bee has no time for sorrow.
The hours of folly are measur'd by the clock; but of wisdom, no clock can measure.
All wholesome food is caught without a net or a trap.
Bring out number, weight and measure in a year of dearth.
No bird soars too high, if he soars with his own wings.
A dead body revenges not injuries.
The most sublime act is to set another before you.
If the fool would persist in his folly he would become wise.
Folly is the cloak of knavery.
Shame is Pride's cloke.
Prisons are built with stones of law, brothels with bricks of religion.
The pride of the peacock is the glory of God.
The lust of the goat is the bounty of God.
The wrath of the lion is the wisdom of God.
The nakedness of woman is the work of God.
Excess of sorrow laughs. Excess of joy weeps.
The roaring of lions, the howling of wolves, the raging of the stormy sea, and the destructive sword, are portions of eternity, too great for the eye of man.
The fox condemns the trap, not himself.
Joys impregnate. Sorrows bring forth.
Let man wear the fell of the lion, woman the fleece of the sheep.
The bird a nest, the spider a web, man friendship.
The selfish, smiling fool, and the sullen, frowning fool shall be both thought wise, that they may be a rod.
What is now proved was once only imagin'd.
The rat, the mouse, the fox, the rabbit watch the roots; the lion, the tyger, the horse, the elephant watch the fruits.
The cistern contains: the fountain overflows.
One thought fills immensity.
Always be ready to speak your mind, and a base man will avoid you.
Every thing possible to be believ'd is an image of truth.
The eagle never lost so much time as when he submitted to learn of the crow.
The fox provides for himself, but God provides for the lion.
Think in the morning. Act in the noon. Eat in the evening. Sleep in the night.
He who has suffer'd you to impose on him, knows you.
As the plow follows words, so God rewards prayers.
The tygers of wrath are wiser than the horses of instruction.
Expect poison from the standing water.
You never know what is enough unless you know what is more than enough.
Listen to the fool's reproach! it is a kingly title!
The eyes of fire, the nostrils of air, the mouth of water, the beard of earth.
The weak in courage is strong in cunning.
The apple tree never asks the beech how he shall grow; nor the lion, the horse, how he shall take his prey.
The thankful receiver bears a plentiful harvest.
If others had not been foolish, we should be so.
The soul of sweet delight can never be defil'd.
When thou seest an eagle, thou seest a portion of genius; lift up thy head!
As the caterpiller chooses the fairest leaves to lay her eggs on, so the priest lays his curse on the fairest joys.
To create a little flower is the labour of ages.
Damn braces. Bless relaxes.
The best wine is the oldest, the best water the newest.
Prayers plow not! Praises reap not!
Joys laugh not! Sorrows weep not!
The head Sublime, the heart Pathos, the genitals Beauty, the hands and feet Proportion.
As the air to a bird or the sea to a fish, so is contempt to the contemptible.
The crow wish'd every thing was black, the owl that every thing was white.
Exuberance is Beauty.
If the lion was advised by the fox, he would be cunning.
Improvement makes strait roads; but the crooked roads without improvement are roads of genius.
Sooner murder an infant in its cradle than nurse unacted desires.
Where man is not, nature is barren.
Truth can never be told so as to be understood, and not be believ'd.
Enough! or too much.

CUPID one day ask'd his Mother,
When she meant that he shou'd Wed?
You're too Young, my Boy, she said:
Nor has Nature made another
Fit to match with Cupid's Bed.
Cupid then her Sight directed
To a lately Wedded Pair;
Where Himself the Match effected;
They as Youthful, they as Fair.
Having by Example carry'd
This first Point in the Dispute;
WORSELEY next he said's not Marry'd:
Her's with Cupid's Charms may suit

Tomorrow is the marriage day
Of Mopsus and fair Philida.
Come shepherds, bring your garlands gay.
O do not weep, fair Bellamour,
Though he be gone there's many more.
For love hath many loves in store.

and brought back with her
the first few primroses she did not pick
tucked neat into the hedgerow
a wisp of sheepwool
caught on wire she did not touch
a dewdro p which the sun caught as she passed
rabbits who lifted softbrush ears
paused then hopped away and yet not fast
a slight breeze which did not touch the primroses
which blew the wisp of sheepwool a little for a moment
which trembled the dewdro p into colours
and yet it stayed on the grass stalk
in the night
the primroses sheltered in her and grew imperceptibly
the sheepwool almost touched her
the dewdro p joined the air around her
the rabbits slept close to her
the breeze sighed and waited outside the window
in the morning they awoke together

THE moments passed as at a play;
I had the wisdom love brings forth;
I had my share of mother-wit,
And yet for all that I could say,
And though I had her praise for it,
A cloud blown from the cut-throat North
Suddenly hid Love's moon away.
Believing every word I said,
I praised her body and her mind
Till pride had made her eyes grow bright,
And pleasure made her cheeks grow red,
And vanity her footfall light,
Yet we, for all that praise, could find
Nothing but darkness overhead.
We sat as silent as a stone,
We knew, though she'd not said a word,
That even the best of love must die,
And had been savagely undone
Were it not that Love upon the cry
Of a most ridiculous little bird
Tore from the clouds his marvellous moon.
ALTHOUGH crowds gathered once if she but showed her face,
And even old men's eyes grew dim, this hand alone,
Like some last courtier at a gypsy camping-place
Babbling of fallen majesty, records what's gone.
These lineaments, a heart that laughter has made sweet,
These, these remain, but I record what-s gone.  A crowd
Will gather, and not know it walks the very street
Whereon a thing once walked that seemed a burning cloud

Crazy Loneliness Hijacks Memory of a Beautiful Girl
Last night
I missed you so much
I made love to
your nightdress
... passionately.
Now your nightdress
hides from me
slinks under covers and pillows
avoids my eyes.
I can't take another night  without you!
Your nightie can't take another night with me!
I am holding your dresses hostage
threatening them with kisses...caresses
if they make one false move.
Your other clothes
tremble in the wardrobe
...come back to me!

FIVE-AND-TWENTY years have gone
Since old William pollexfen
Laid his strong bones down in death
By his wife Elizabeth
In the grey stone tomb he made.
And after twenty years they laid
In that tomb by him and her
His son George, the astrologer;
And Masons drove from miles away
To scatter the Acacia spray
Upon a melancholy man
Who had ended where his breath began.
Many a son and daughter lies
Far from the customary skies,
The Mall and Eades's grammar school,
In London or in Liverpool;
But where is laid the sailor John
That so many lands had known,
Quiet lands or unquiet seas
Where the Indians trade or Japanese?
He never found his rest ashore,
Moping for one voyage more.
Where have they laid the sailor John?
And yesterday the youngest son,
A humorous, unambitious man,
Was buried near the astrologer,
Yesterday in the tenth year
Since he who had been contented long.
A nobody in a great throng,
Decided he would journey home,
Now that his fiftieth year had come,
And 'Mr.  Alfred' be again
Upon the lips of common men
Who carried in their memory
His childhood and his family.
At all these death-beds women heard
A visionary white sea-bird
Lamenting that a man should die;
And with that cry I have raised my cry.

Memory
Plays the keys
Of my heart
Just like a Baby Grand
The melody-the tune
All off key
In an orchestra
Of fine tuned instruments
I follow the music
With my minds eye
To where-ever it leads me
And into the depths of Ballads
Of  'HeartBreak'
I, at last find myself
Locked-tethered-chained
To memories, bitter and sweet
Despairing and off key with no
Harmony, in the least
A re-write is in order, STAT
A re-play-a fine tuning, immediately
A re-awakening, a re-newing-NOW:
Of Hope
Of Hope That Sings
You know, that feeling, with wings

Every old man I see
Reminds me of my father
When he had fallen in love with death
One time when sheaves were gathered.
That man I saw in Gardner Street
Stumbled on the kerb was one,
He stared at me half-eyed,
I might have been his son.
And I remember the musician
Faltering over his fiddle
In Bayswater, London,
He too set me the riddle.
Every old man I see
In October-coloured weather
Seems to say to me:
"I was once your father."

My mind lets go a thousand things
Like dates of wars and deaths of kings,
And yet recalls the very hour--
'T was noon by yonder village tower,
And on the last blue noon in May--
The wind came briskly up this way,
Crisping the brook beside the road;
Then, pausing here, set down its load
Of pine-scents, and shook listlessly
Two petals from that wild-rose tree.

Remorse -  is Memory -  awake -
Her Parties all astir -
A Presence of Departed Acts -
At window -  and at Door -
Its Past -  set down before the Soul
And lighted with a Match -
Perusal -  to facilitate -
And help Belief to stretch -
Remorse is cureless -  the Disease
Not even God -  can heal -
For 'tis His institution -  and
The Adequate of Hell -

Oh in this dearth and winter of the soul,
When even Hope, still wont to soar and sing,
Droopeth, a starveling bird whose downy wing
Stiffens ere dead through the dank drift it fall--
Yea, ere Hope perish utterly, I call
On thee, fond Memory, that thou haste and bring
One leaf, one blossom from that far-off spring
When love's auroral light lay over all.
Bring but one pansy: haply so the thrill
Of poignant yearning for those glad dead years
May, like the gusty south, breathe o'er the chill
Of frozen grief, dissolving it in tears,
Till numb Hope, stirred by that warm dropping rain,
Will deem, perchance, Love's springtide come again.

I can almost see you from my window
the way you sauntered up to my door.
How you would always look at the mailbox
like you'd never been here before.
The visions of you surround me.
Your memory is still everywhere.
I wish you could talk with me now.
It's hard to accept you are there.
I see you smoking your cigarrettes
''No filters! ''... just as you like.
I go to the places you've travelled.
I see you where we loved to hike.
It's strange when I think of ''forever''
and know that you'll never return.
I wish things were not left unanswered.
I'm sure there is so much you've learned.
Your journey must have had a purpose.
You suffured like no one I've known.
I look forward to our reuniting.
Will it suprise you to see how I've grown?
Dedicated to my DAD

_girl in my mirror_
I look at myself in the mirror today
But i cant recognize my face
It wasnt me anymore
This is not what i used to be
I asked my reflection,
who are you?
what have you done to me?
where's the old me?
to my surprise,
the image of the girl talk back
i am you..
i am what you've become..
do you remember?
how much hurt you kept inside?
you look so lonely
your eyes so sad
your skin looks old and dull
because you now dont know
how to give a smile..
you're lying.. Can't you see?
I always have good friends beside me..
A family to care and support
to give me warm hugs and comfort..
what else would i want?
you're the one whose lying? !
are you listening to yourself?
she talk back at me..
'who do you call friends? !
the same people who gives you a cold heart
a broken soul, those who ignore your presence? !
are they real? where are they when u need them? !
you fall apart alone? ! yeah, you've tried all your best,
just to make them happy,
you've given everything
you even scarifice yourself even if it means
that you have to give up something..
who do you call your family?
those who treated you as if they own your life?
telling you what to do?
who laughs at you when you try to express yourself?
those who think you're weak and always sick?
a sister who keep on mocking you?
and brothers who never respect you?
now tell me.. who's lying?
is it me or you? !
now.. do you know who i am?
do you remember my name?
I'm your alter-ego
stop pretending..
dont pretend your happy when ur not
now is the time to make them listen
be not afraid anymore..
stand up and fight for yourself..
and you will see..
that i am you..
and that you are me..
we're one soul..
yours is broken..
mine isnt..

I look in the mirror
And what do I see
A reflection of someone else
Staring out at me
I see someone I used to know
Someone who used to be me
As I look in the mirror
That’s what I see
One drink led to another
A drunkard I became
Now my poor family
Are looked on with shame
Empty bottles fill every corner
Money I have none
My wife and children go hungry
As I crawl around the floor
As the days grew longer
The worse I became
Bottle followed bottle
Perfecting my shame
I yelled and I shouted
Strange things did I see
But none were more stranger
Than a reflection of me

The mirror is disgusted
Gross misinterpretation
Of the image it threw up
Down with images,
The poor mirror screamed
The scream shattered
The mirror into shards
The images
Multiplied...!

Your beauty, somewhat tarnished now,
still outlines the joyous lass you were
those summers ago, when men stopped
in their tracks just to look at you.
Oh, how cruel time can be.
Now the only recognition you receive is;
'Mum, where's my football socks? '
'Mum, isn't dinner ready yet? '
Now you're mum.
When once you were darling.
Your sun set when he didn't take you
that way - any more.
So you lie beside him, remembering
how your passion rose with his.
And you eyes ask, 'What happened? '

A young spring-tender girl
combed her joyous hair
'You are very ugly' said the mirror.
But,
on her lips hung
a smile of dove-secret loveliness,
for only that morning had not
the blind boy said,
'You are beautiful'?

As I look into the mirror
I see nothing
I see a hypocrite
I see pain
I see no emotion
I see betrayal
I see a failure
I see what everyone else sees
I see me

When you look in the mirror
Do you see only yourself?
Could the reflection be your soul,
Staring yoack in the face?
If there is a crack in the mirror,
Is that not a reflection of you?
The mirror reveals merely what your eyes
Want us to see
But could not a clearer reflection
Mirror infinity?

Seeing is believing.
Whatever was thought or said,
these persistent, inexorable deaths
make faith as such absent,
our humanness a question,
a disgust for what we are.
Whatever the hope,
here it is lost.
Because we coveted our difference,
here is the cost.

Helen of Troy had a wandering glance;
Sappho's restriction was only the sky;
Ninon was ever the chatter of France;
But oh, what a good girl am I!

Outside the long window,
With his head on the stone sill,
The dog is lying,
Gazing at his Beloved.
His eyes are wet and urgent,
And his body is taut and shaking.
It is cold on the terrace;
A pale wind licks along the stone slabs,
But the dog gazes through the glass
And is content.
The Beloved is writing a letter.
Occasionally she speaks to the dog,
But she is thinking of her writing.
Does she, too, give her devotion to one
Not worthy?

Mind set
All to make money
Shut heart and soul
Banging on
Made money sequenced
Bribes and bribed
Sedately wet
Vamped, smoked, drugged
To racing
On blackened therapy of escapism
Path of confession opens
Walk in to treat
The heart and soul

Professed striving, thriving in kitchen life
Woman of yesterday was a home maid
Call her not a homemaker or housewife
A home maid unpaid and future benighted
Illiterate slave literate in home science
Deprived of finance for days ahead
Suppressed in fearful negligence
Dear and near, not to be truly so supposed
Necessity out of such a pity
Woman of olden time
Saved in her kitty
Annas, paise to chime.
Unreally smiling out of disguised injustice
Done to her by a domestic law
To herself collected coins, fortune to splice
Woman of moral law
Begotten parental assets begotten
Life raised husband and his folks
Counting her collection the woman forlorn
From mercy somebody the beseeched alms
Her pouch of coins didn't change
Unchanged the least quantum amount too
No depositing, no investing to challange
No interest, no dividend to woo
Passed on from husband to son
Hopes on despair built
Survival of a grand-ma's funeral now to shun.
Stealthily on money matters spoken about.
On her couch of death
Ready to depart her pouch.
Struggling through her last breath
Her savings presented to her funeral march

Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
…Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
….Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
…Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
….Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
….Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
….Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
….Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
….Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money

Money can buy costumes but not beauty
Money can buy idols but not devotion
Money can buy books but not wisdom and knowledge
Money can buy bed but not rest and sleep
Money can buy medicines but not health
Money can buy wealth but not health
Money can buy clothes but not shame
Money can buy food but not hunger
Money can buy flowers but not freshness and fragrance
Money can buy land but not home (made of human hearts)
Money can buy honey but not sweetness
Money can buy some things but not everything
Money can buy luxuries but not happiness.

Money is precious money is power
Money is a devil cunning and evil
Source of war destruction of nations
Money causes hatred money unites
Money is lovely it attracts like a magnet
Cupboard love is given for money
Money is a master, it instructs we surrender
Money has rules we follow blindly
Cheating and stealing are done for money
Money gives power money gives respect
Money can earn you a stay in a coffin
Root of evil, source of happiness
Money is wonderful, money is Eden
Money is a murderer it kills like a cobra
Rejoice with money, cry for money
Money is a stinging bee, money is delicious
Money is sweet as sweet as honey
Once you lick it you’ll die for money.
Money is war, money is peace
Money’s path is deception, cheating and enmity
People kill and get killed for money.
Money is attractive, money glitters
Money does make one act like a dummy
Petrified can’t move, like Egyptian mummy.
Money and power are closely related
Money is power, power is money
Too much money  may mean power and misery.

no money to do anything with
its hard enough to get by
with out some riche kid walking by
they flant their three credit cards in your face
plus their 2005 mitibushi eclipse
yet they complain that they have no money
but yet their dad has another car for them
it all makes no sense when we people must
suffer and yet survive with little money but
the other half lives in riches
if some one is in help they will not help unless it
is there friend who actually doesnt need help
but for them who really cares
no money for us only those who can afford it but
no one notices us because we try to blend in anyway

The lust for power and money to corruption lead
And some cheat and lie to satisfy their greed
And big Corporations do not have a soul
The avarice that afflicts them their thinking control.
The distribution of wealth as ever seems so unfair
And thousands grow poorer for every new millionaire
Oil tycoons and arms dealers make millions every day
Whilst thousands are dying of hunger like flowers in decay.
To be born of poor parents is their only crime
And they look thin, old and gray though only in their prime
In refugee camps they are forced to reside
In a Land ravaged by drought and by war men destroyed.
'Tis true power can be a corruptible thing
Of the wealthy and famous some poets only sing
Why laud people who have far more than enough
When millions are homeless and have to sleep rough.
The lust for power seems to be thriving of late
And only the wealthy and famous the media celebrate
Whilst each day thousands die of hunger doesn''t life seem unfair
In a World where empathy and compassion are rare.

Money we all know is a medium of exchange
Buyers and sellers relate to each other through money
The question here is – what is the value of money?
Few say money is the root of all evil
Many say money is the root of prosperity
And how valuable is money
Almost everything is measured by money
People go to work everyday because of money
Wealth of individuals is measured by money
All purchases and transactions are made by money
Every country has a name for its own money
The importance of some countries
In based on the value of their money
What is the value of money?
The rise and fall of foreign exchange
Is used to measure the value of money
Success to many is also measured by money
Corporate positions are measured by money
There are some people who marry for money
What is the value of money?
To many, money is everything
You cannot get many things done without money
Many have pondered and contemplated to ask
Can human beings live without money?
Then, how shall we determine and decide
The prices of individuals and materials
Differences between the rich and the poor
Are calculated in monetary terms
The power bestowed by money
Seems bigger than imagined

[Written to the Most Beautiful Woman in the World]
M< Sweetheart is the TRUTH BEYOND THE MOON,
And never have I been in love with Woman,
Always aspiring to be set in tune
With one who is invisible, inhuman.
O laughing girl, cold TRUTH has stepped between,
Spoiling the fevers of your virgin face:
Making your shining eyes but lead and clay,
Mocking your brilliant brain and lady's grace.
TRUTH haunted me the day I wooed and lost,
The day I wooed and won, or wooed in play:
Tho' you were Juliet or Rosalind,
Thus shall it be, forever and a day.
I doubt my vows, tho' sworn on my own blood,
Tho' I draw toward you weeping, soul to soul,
I have a lonely goal beyond the moon;
Ay, beyond Heaven and Hell, I have a goal!

It's said the moon has power over man -
It governs our body mechanisms,
Rising and falling biorhythms,
Lunar months during pregnancy,
And it plays with our minds:
The full moon is captivating -
Rising as a ball of orange light in the fall,
Blazing brilliant white on a winter night
Enhancing the stars in their midnight glory
And bathing the earth below in stark half-light:
It mesmerizes lovers and dreamers,
Promises miracles to those who pray,
Agitates the mentally unstable mind,
Inspires the poet to creat beautiful words,
And interrupts our sleep with its magical glow;
It beckons us to exlore its mysteries -
A lucky few have walked its surface
Leaving footprints for future explorers to follow,
Always it appears as a beacon of steadfastness,
An anchor that tethers this unstable planet.
A beautiful sight on a black onyx night.

When the moon was full they came to the water.
some with pitchforks, some with rakes,
some with sieves and ladles,
and one with a silver cup.
And they fished til a traveler passed them and said,
"Fools,
to catch the moon you must let your women
spread their hair on the water --
even the wily moon will leap to that bobbing
net of shimmering threads,
gasp and flop till its silver scales
lie black and still at your feet."
And they fished with the hair of their women
till a traveler passed them and said,
"Fools,
do you think the moon is caught lightly,
with glitter and silk threads?
You must cut out your hearts and bait your hooks
with those dark animals;
what matter you lose your hearts to reel in your dream?"
And they fished with their tight, hot hearts
till a traveler passed them and said,
"Fools,
what good is the moon to a heartless man?
Put back your hearts and get on your knees
and drink as you never have,
until your throats are coated with silver
and your voices ring like bells."
And they fished with their lips and tongues
until the water was gone
and the moon had slipped away
in the soft, bottomless mud.

The moonlight breaks upon the city's domes,
And falls along cemented steel and stone,
Upon the grayness of a million homes,
Lugubrious in unchanging monotone.
Upon the clothes behind the tenement,
That hang like ghosts suspended from the lines,
Linking each flat to each indifferent,
Incongruous and strange the moonlight shines.
There is no magic from your presence here,
Ho, moon, sad moon, tuck up your trailing robe,
Whose silver seems antique and so severe
Against the glow of one electric globe.
Go spill your beauty on the laughing faces
Of happy flowers that bloom a thousand hues,
Waiting on tiptoe in the wilding spaces,
To drink your wine mixed with sweet drafts of dews.

THE cat went here and there
And the moon spun round like a top,
And the nearest kin of the moon,
The creeping cat, looked up.
Black Minnaloushe stared at the moon,
For, wander and wail as he would,
The pure cold light in the sky
Troubled his animal blood.
Minnaloushe runs in the grass
Lifting his delicate feet.
Do you dance, Minnaloushe, do you dance?
When two close kindred meet.
What better than call a dance?
Maybe the moon may learn,
Tired of that courtly fashion,
A new dance turn.
Minnaloushe creeps through the grass
From moonlit place to place,
The sacred moon overhead
Has taken a new phase.
Does Minnaloushe know that his pupils
Will pass from change to change,
And that from round to crescent,
From crescent to round they range?
Minnaloushe creeps through the grass
Alone, important and wise,
And lifts to the changing moon
His changing eyes.

He coveted her portrait.
He toiled as she grew gay.
She loved to see him labor
In that devoted way.
And in the end it pleased her,
But bowed him more with care.
Her rose-smile showed so plainly,
Her soul-smile was not there.
That night he groped without a lamp
To find a cloak, a book,
And on the vexing portrait
By moonrise chanced to look.
The color-scheme was out of key,
The maiden rose-smile faint,
But through the blessed darkness
She gleamed, his friendly saint.
The comrade, white, immortal,
His bride, and more than bride—
The citizen, the sage of mind,
For whom he lived and died.

737
The Moon was but a Chin of Gold
A Night or two ago—
And now she turns Her perfect Face
Upon the World below—
Her Forehead is of Amplest Blonde—
Her Cheek—a Beryl hewn—
Her Eye unto the Summer Dew
The likest I have known—
Her Lips of Amber never part—
But what must be the smile
Upon Her Friend she could confer
Were such Her Silver Will—
And what a privilege to be
But the remotest Star—
For Certainty She take Her Way
Beside Your Palace Door—
Her Bonnet is the Firmament—
The Universe—Her Shoe—
The Stars—the Trinkets at Her Belt—
Her Dimities—of Blue—

Since the disorders in Henan and the famine in Guannei, my brothers and sisters have been scattered. Looking at the moon, I express my thoughts in this poem, which I send to my eldest brother at Fuliang, my seventh brother at Yuqian, My fifteen brother at Wujiang and my younger brothers and sisters at Fuli and Xiagui.
My heritage lost through disorder and famine,
My brothers and sisters flung eastward and westward,
My fields and gardens wrecked by the war,
My own flesh and blood become scum of the street,
I moan to my shadow like a lone-wandering wildgoose,
I am torn from my root like a water-plant in autumn:
I gaze at the moon, and my tears run down
For hearts, in five places, all sick with one wish.

White in the moon the long road lies,
The moon stands blank above;
White in the moon the long road lies
That leads me from my love.
Still hangs the hedge without a gust,
Still, still the shadows stay:
My feet upon the moonlit dust
Pursue the ceaseless way.
The world is round, so travellers tell,
And straight though reach the track,
Trudge on, trudge on, 'twill all be well,
The way will guide one back.
But ere the circle homeward hies
Far, far must it remove:
White in the moon the long road lies
That leads me from my love.

Is she not lovely!  Oh! when, long ago,
My own dead mother gazed upon my face,
As I stood blushing near in bridal snow,
I had not half her beauty and her grace.
Yet that fond mother praised, the world caressed,
And ONE adored me -- how shall HE who soon
Shall wear my gentle flower upon his breast,
Prize to its utmost worth the priceless boon?
Shall he not gird her, guard her, make her rich,
(Not as the world is rich, in outward show,)
With all the love and watchful kindness which
A wise and tender manhood may bestow?
Oh! I shall part from her with many tears,
My earthly treasure, pure and undefiled!
And not without a weight of anxious fears
For the new future of my darling child.
And yet -- for well I know that virgin heart --
No wifely duty will she leave undone;
Nor will her love neglect that woman's art
Which courts and keeps a love already won.
In no light girlish levity she goes
Unto the altar where they wait her now,
But with a thoughtful, prayerful heart that knows
The solemn purport of a marriage vow.
And she will keep, with all her soul's deep truth,
The lightest pledge which binds her love and life;
And she will be -- no less in age than youth
My noble child will be -- a noble wife.
And he, her lover! husband! what of him?
Yes, he will shield, I think, my bud from blight!
Yet griefs will come -- enough! my eyes are dim
With tears I must not shed -- at least, to-night.
Bless thee, my daughter! --  Oh! she is so fair! --
Heaven bend above thee with its starriest skies!
And make thee truly all thou dost appear
Unto a lover's and thy mother's eyes!

I do not think of you lying in the wet clay
Of a Monaghan graveyard; I see
You walking down a lane among the poplars
On your way to the station, or happily
Going to second Mass on a summer Sunday -
You meet me and you say:
'Don't forget to see about the cattle - '
Among your earthiest words the angels stray.
And I think of you walking along a headland
Of green oats in June,
So full of repose, so rich with life -
And I see us meeting at the end of a town
On a fair day by accident, after
The bargains are all made and we can walk
Together through the shops and stalls and markets
Free in the oriental streets of thought.
O you are not lying in the wet clay,
For it is a harvest evening now and we
Are piling up the ricks against the moonlight
And you smile up at us - eternally.

~  Mother Dear, O Mother Dear
Mother dear, oh Mother dear, were you ever young?
How felt you on the day when love had just begun?
Did tulips drip from every branch and joy obscure the sun?
Did secret smiles once mold your hopes
Where lines of care and dread are ropes
That tell of bitter loss instead,
The smiles forgotten now and fled?
Like me, were you once mesmerized
Of blissfilled future, sunny skies,
Then saw the storm clouds gather round,
Felt the darkness, heard the sound
Of lighting charring all your dreams,
Each betrayal worse than last it seems?
Through heavy days and heavy thoughts,
Each step mechanically has brought
You to this day where now you live,
Those dreams forgotten, for it is
That dreams are fairy-castles built
And meant to evaporate and wilt.
Then, as you held each fragile child,
Did ghosts of dreams bring back a smile?
Forgotten dreams, once more reborn,
To die again before the dawn-
Unmourned, unnoticed, as time moved on,
Interred within your heart's sad song?
Mother dear, oh Mother dear, were we ever young?

If I were hanged on the highest hill,
Mother o’ mine, O mother o’ mine!
I know whose love would follow me still,
Mother o’ mine, O mother o’ mine!
If I were drowned in the deepest sea,
Mother o’ mine, O mother o’ mine!
I know whose tears would come down to me,
Mother o’ mine, O mother o’ mine!
If I were damned of body and soul,
I know whose prayers would make me whole,
Mother o’ mine, O mother o’ mine!

God made my mother on an April day,
From sorrow and the mist along the sea,
Lost birds' and wanderers' songs and ocean spray,
And the moon loved her wandering jealously.
Beside the ocean's din she combed her hair,
Singing the nocturne of the passing ships,
Before her earthly lover found her there
And kissed away the music from her lips.
She came unto the hills and saw the change
That brings the swallow and the geese in turns.
But there was not a grief she deeméd strange,
For there is that in her which always mourns.
Kind heart she has for all on hill or wave
Whose hopes grew wings like ants to fly away.
I bless the God Who such a mother gave
This poor bird-hearted singer of a day.

PENSIVE, on her dead gazing, I heard the Mother of All,
Desperate, on the torn bodies, on the forms covering the battle-
fields gazing;
(As the last gun ceased--but the scent of the powder-smoke linger'd;)
As she call'd to her earth with mournful voice while she stalk'd:
Absorb them well, O my earth, she cried--I charge you, lose not my
sons! lose not an atom;
And you streams, absorb them well, taking their dear blood;
And you local spots, and you airs that swim above lightly,
And all you essences of soil and growth--and you, my rivers' depths;
And you, mountain sides--and the woods where my dear children's
blood, trickling, redden'd;
And you trees, down in your roots, to bequeath to all future
trees,                                                       10
My dead absorb--my young men's beautiful bodies absorb--and their
precious, precious, precious blood;
Which holding in trust for me, faithfully back again give me, many a
year hence,
In unseen essence and odor of surface and grass, centuries hence;
In blowing airs from the fields, back again give me my darlings--give
my immortal heroes;
Exhale me them centuries hence--breathe me their breath--let not an
atom be lost;
O years and graves! O air and soil! O my dead, an aroma sweet!
Exhale them perennial, sweet death, years, centuries hence.

There was Rundle, Station Master,
An' Beazeley of the Rail,
An' 'Ackman, Commissariat,
An' Donkin' o' the Jail;
An' Blake, Conductor-Sargent,
Our Master twice was 'e,
With 'im that kept the Europe-shop,
Old Framjee Eduljee.
Outside -- "Sergeant!  Sir!  Salute!  Salaam!"
Inside -- "Brother", an' it doesn't do no 'arm.
We met upon the Level an' we parted on the Square,
An' I was Junior Deacon in my Mother-Lodge out there!
We'd Bola Nath, Accountant,
An' Saul the Aden Jew,
An' Din Mohammed, draughtsman
Of the Survey Office too;
There was Babu Chuckerbutty,
An' Amir Singh the Sikh,
An' Castro from the fittin'-sheds,
The Roman Catholick!
We 'adn't good regalia,
An' our Lodge was old an' bare,
But we knew the Ancient Landmarks,
An' we kep' 'em to a hair;
An' lookin' on it backwards
It often strikes me thus,
There ain't such things as infidels,
Excep', per'aps, it's us.
For monthly, after Labour,
We'd all sit down and smoke
(We dursn't give no banquits,
Lest a Brother's caste were broke),
An' man on man got talkin'
Religion an' the rest,
An' every man comparin'
Of the God 'e knew the best.
So man on man got talkin',
An' not a Brother stirred
Till mornin' waked the parrots
An' that dam' brain-fever-bird;
We'd say 'twas 'ighly curious,
An' we'd all ride 'ome to bed,
With Mo'ammed, God, an' Shiva
Changin' pickets in our 'ead.
Full oft on Guv'ment service
This rovin' foot 'ath pressed,
An' bore fraternal greetin's
To the Lodges east an' west,
Accordin' as commanded
From Kohat to Singapore,
But I wish that I might see them
In my Mother-Lodge once more!
I wish that I might see them,
My Brethren black an' brown,
With the trichies smellin' pleasant
An' the ~hog-darn~ passin' down;                          [Cigar-lighter.]
An' the old khansamah snorin'                                     [Butler.]
On the bottle-khana floor,                                       [Pantry.]
Like a Master in good standing
With my Mother-Lodge once more!
Outside -- "Sergeant!  Sir!  Salute!  Salaam!"
Inside -- "Brother", an' it doesn't do no 'arm.
We met upon the Level an' we parted on the Square,
An' I was Junior Deacon in my Mother-Lodge out there!

ONE morning (raw it was and wet---
A foggy day in winter time)
A Woman on the road I met,
Not old, though something past her prime:
Majestic in her person, tall and straight;
And like a Roman matron's was her mien and gait.
The ancient spirit is not dead;
Old times, thought I, are breathing there;
Proud was I that my country bred
Such strength, a dignity so fair:
She begged an alms, like one in poor estate;
I looked at her again, nor did my pride abate.
When from these lofty thoughts I woke,
'What is it,' said I, 'that you bear,
Beneath the covert of your Cloak,
Protected from this cold damp air? '
She anwered, soon as she the question heard,
'A simple burthen, Sir, a little Singing-bird.'
And, thus continuing, she said,
'I had a Son, who many a day
Sailed on the seas, but he is dead;
In Denmark he was cast away:
And I have travelled weary miles to see
If aught which he had owned might still remain for me.
The bird and cage they both were his:
'Twas my Son's bird; and neat and trim
He kept it: many voyages
The singing-bird had gone with him;
When last he sailed, he left the bird behind;
From bodings, as might be, that hung upon his mind.
He to a fellow-lodger's care
Had left it, to be watched and fed,
And pipe its song in safety;---there
I found it when my Son was dead;
And now, God help me for my little wit!
I bear it with me, Sir;---he took so much delight in it.'

You too, my mother, read my rhymes
For love of unforgotten times,
And you may chance to hear once more
The little feet along the floor.

A body gone cold
dread, fear has now taken hold
one precious life, sold

As for the innocence;
with which by you it' Is for long, it was so lost;
The by and meek each my possession do not do it again
when we meet again, next week.
which goes and now I mind,
my back in front of he whom wears the black to you, i turn.
With your, by my murder and hers you simply,
thought i would and as for that...
For the other little me,
whom all do not do as me as for her sisters mercy,
because of you I can't ask for mine,
You ask; when you did not of me,
and thinking back you should have what, by now can you think?
I beg pray tell for what, ....As for Their' that which finds my ear;
There is no desire because of how and why 'you for the'...
and where it was I am...I am no more...
their is mercy shown you....at all small; her my/me it once...
inside your moon was always full....now it's empty 'dear'......
...............
Innocence is lost by you and it is gone,
and now we have no soul.
memories built on lies it's better, known.
Simply by your killing, it wont make me whole
I Beg for her mercy, but she can't find my ear
There is no hope at all for you my little evil 'dear'
There is not a man on this planet at whoms feet
I will get down and ever kneel too,
I simply am not that noble of a man.
But a woman that is full of grace, would I pull the
heavens from her sun.
26 February 2010

We must all stay aware…..,
Of the Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder….,
It’s been increasing for years….,
The Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder ….! ! !
Can’t dare turn our backs….,
On the Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder ….,
It’ll sneak up and kill us…,
The Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder ….! ! !
It’s hard to believe and conceive….
The Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder ….,
That’s why so many are blind….,
To the Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder …! ! !
We’ve seen the bloody attacks…..,
Of the Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder ….,
So we must face the facts….,
On the Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder ….! ! !
Yes they’re after us all…,
The Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder ….,
Their radical religion condones it….,
The Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder ….! ! !
Can we control it or stop it….,
So it won’t go any further….? ? ?
That’s the billion-dollar question….,
On the Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder …! ! !

Well if you wanted honesty,
Thats all you had to say.
I never want to let you down,
It's better off this way.
Have you heard the news that I'm dead.
As I lay in warm red?
But you just stood there motionless,
As I layed there and bled.
Can you hear me cry out to you,
Words I thought I'd choke on?
But my Black Parade is coming,
This is the round you won.
You can preach all you want,
Who's going to save me?
When I say I'm goign to die,
You just stand there and breathe.
I can tase the metallic blood,
And bone shards from my head.
As my life slowly drifts away,
Oh can you feel the dread.
But your the one who caused all this,
I'm gone because of you.
I don't want you to cry for me,
I'm not crying for you.
Well if you wanted honesty,
That's all you had to say.
I never want to let you done,
It's better off this way.
Amy S.
Done for Eng. Strats.9 and for Claire..... I miss you!
Part's by My Chemical Romance/ The Black Parade

It was a mystery right from the first
A murder had occurred you understand
It happened right in the Bissell mansion
A sight that is beautiful and grand
Everyone looked at one another
For who was the one to suspect?
Was he or she right beside us?
Nervousness was what we started to get
We ate our four-course dinner together
As though nothing had gone astray
The food was truly exceptional
And we didn’t have a single delay
But someone had killed our hero, Andy
And it couldn’t just be dismissed
Oh yes, we all loved this wonderful sheriff
He would definitely be forever missed
You want a little excitement, folks?
And blend right in with the plot
A murder mystery dinner theatre
Entertainment that we enjoyed a lot!

My blood is boiling,
Centigrade, Fahrenheit,
It's all the same,
Tell me in who's bad name,
Do we get the right to kill?
Our History of Blood,
Going on, going on,
Still the same!

*Author’s Note: It is not the intent to malign, nor denigrate the memory of the two
people who died tragically. Rather, the composition addresses brief periods of levity apparent during the course of the 1995 trial proceedings.
Extraordinary talent of such persuasion
…As Uelmen's...analytical mind
A finagling.........F. Lee Bailey
When the man is so inclined
Surreptitiously...Alan Dershowitz
…Of the faculty…at Harvard Law
Looking over Ito’s shoulders
In search…of some…appellate flaw
And the bag-man…Robert Kardashian
Shrewdly…in charge…of luggage checks
Carl Douglas and Peter Neufeld
……And his sidekick…Barry Scheck
And Johnnie Cochran….and Shapiro
….Legal sharpies….all perhaps
Quite...at home…and most at ease
With the concept…of courtroom craps
William Hodgman…somewhat psychic
Brilliantly…feigned…a heart attack
Then disappeared…to his upstairs office
Too damned smart…to ever…come back
Goldberg…Kelberg…Cheri and Woody
Every utterance…A poetic display
Of Shakespearean prose…in its glory
…No finer thespians in all L.A.
Then there’s Harmon…squeezing Charmin
Just in case…it gets too deep
And there’s the fellow…at the table
Who…so often…appears asleep
Forever doomed…to a living...nightmare
Of  Simpson’s greatest…commercial hit
Waving and smiling….before the jury
…Christopher’s gloves…just don’t fit
….There is not…an adversary
More formidable…than Marcia Clark
Which leaves one…somewhat…confused
And lost…completely…in the dark
……Most…of all…Gil Garcetti
Analyzing…his wayward scheme
What the Hell….is Darden doing
……….On anybody’s…legal team

On all the deer
All the tigers
In the jungle in Myanmar
Have attacked together.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza │13 January,2018

Imprisoned me to death
or a double-life unbailable sentence
I am pleading guilty
I have murdered the precious times
eversince
I am a needless slumberer
an hour waster
a clock watcher
a frivolous talker
employed in irrelevant employments
a day squanderer
a false-hope wisher
a luck seeker for  a job abroad
a jack in few trade collector
I have acquired trial and error skills
a hit and miss casual careers
I am loitering as self-acclaimed explorer
and keep writing impossible to publish anthology
I am shifting various courses
moving one place to place
I am spilling out all crystal fountain of my youth
I am spoiling much of them
Still at this very moment
I am regretting
I  keep on wishing
how could I live
them once again
without time-wasting?
Those precious moments
that meant to be spent
wisely but once -
I am now voicing out my
guilty feelings within
under oath!

AWAY with funeral music - set
The pipe to powerful lips -
The cup of life's for him that drinks
And not for him that sips.

In the glad springtime when leaves were green,
O merrily the throstle sings!
I sought, amid the tangled sheen,
Love whom mine eyes had never seen,
O the glad dove has golden wings!
Between the blossoms red and white,
O merrily the throstle sings!
My love first came into my sight,
O perfect vision of delight,
O the glad dove has golden wings!
The yellow apples glowed like fire,
O merrily the throstle sings!
O Love too great for lip or lyre,
Blown rose of love and of desire,
O the glad dove has golden wings!
But now with snow the tree is grey,
Ah, sadly now the throstle sings!
My love is dead: ah! well-a-day,
See at her silent feet I lay
A dove with broken wings!
Ah, Love! ah, Love! that thou wert slain -
Fond Dove, fond Dove return again!

Music is sweet, endearing symphony,
Melodious rendering of subtle notes of harmony,
Melody that captures the eager, expressive, exploring mind,
Mellifluous tunes of ethereal splendour,
Magnificent aesthetic display of wonder.

Music I love -­ but never strain
Could kindle raptures so divine,
So grief assuage, so conquer pain,
And rouse this pensive heart of mine -­
As that we hear on Christmas morn,
Upon the wintry breezes borne.
Though Darkness still her empire keep,
And hours must pass, ere morning break;
From troubled dreams, or slumbers deep,
That music kindly bids us wake:
It calls us, with an angel's voice,
To wake, and worship, and rejoice;
To greet with joy the glorious morn,
Which angels welcomed long ago,
When our redeeming Lord was born,
To bring the light of Heaven below;
The Powers of Darkness to dispel,
And rescue Earth from Death and Hell.
While listening to that sacred strain,
My raptured spirit soars on high;
I seem to hear those songs again
Resounding through the open sky,
That kindled such divine delight,
In those who watched their flocks by night.
With them, I celebrate His birth -­
Glory to God, in highest Heaven,
Good-will to men, and peace on Earth,
To us a Saviour-king is given;
Our God is come to claim His own,
And Satan's power is overthrown!
A sinless God, for sinful men,
Descends to suffer and to bleed;
Hell must renounce its empire then;
The price is paid, the world is freed,
And Satan's self must now confess,
That Christ has earned a Right to bless:
Now holy Peace may smile from heaven,
And heavenly Truth from earth shall spring:
The captive's galling bonds are riven,
For our Redeemer is our king;
And He that gave his blood for men
Will lead us home to God again.
Acton

Wait Mister. Which way is home?
They turned the light out
and the dark is moving in the corner.
There are no sign posts in this room,
four ladies, over eighty,
in diapers every one of them.
La la la, Oh music swims back to me
and I can feel the tune they played
the night they left me
in this private institution on a hill.
Imagine it. A radio playing
and everyone here was crazy.
I liked it and danced in a circle.
Music pours over the sense
and in a funny way
music sees more than I.
I mean it remembers better;
remembers the first night here.
It was the strangled cold of November;
even the stars were strapped in the sky
and that moon too bright
forking through the bars to stick me
with a singing in the head.
I have forgotten all the rest.
They lock me in this chair at eight a.m.
and there are no signs to tell the way,
just the radio beating to itself
and the song that remembers
more than I. Oh, la la la,
this music swims back to me.
The night I came I danced a circle
and was not afraid.
Mister?

I keep such music in my brain
No din this side of death can quell;
Glory exulting over pain,
And beauty, garlanded in hell.
My dreaming spirit will not heed
The roar of guns that would destroy
My life that on the gloom can read
Proud-surging melodies of joy.
To the world’s end I went, and found
Death in his carnival of glare;
But in my torment I was crowned,
And music dawned above despair.

O Music hast thou only heard
The laughing river, the singing bird,
The murmuring wind in the poplar-trees,--
Nothing but Nature's melodies?
Nay, thou hearest all her tones,
As a Queen must hear!
Sounds of wrath and fear,
Mutterings, shouts, and moans,
Madness, tumult, and despair,
All she has that shakes the air
With voices fierce and wild!
Thou art a Queen and not a dreaming child,--
Put on thy crown and let us hear thee reign
Triumphant in a world of storm and strain!
Echo the long-drawn sighs
Of the mounting wind in the pines;
And the sobs of the mounting waves that rise
In the dark of the troubled deep
To break on the beach in fiery lines.
Echo the far-off roll of thunder,
Rumbling loud
And ever louder, under
The blue-black curtain of cloud,
Where the lightning serpents gleam.
Echo the moaning
Of the forest in its sleep
Like a giant groaning
In the torment of a dream.
Now an interval of quiet
For a moment holds the air
In the breathless hush
Of a silent prayer.
Then the sudden rush
Of the rain, and the riot
Of the shrieking, tearing gale
Breaks loose in the night,
With a fusillade of hail!
Hear the forest fight,
With its tossing arms that crack and clash
In the thunder's cannonade,
While the lightning's forked flash
Brings the old hero-trees to the ground with a crash!
Hear the breakers' deepening roar,
Driven like a herd of cattle
In the wild stampede of battle,
Trampling, trampling, trampling, to overwhelm the shore!
Is it the end of all?
Will the land crumble and fall?
Nay, for a voice replies
Out of the hidden skies,
"Thus far, O sea, shalt thou go,
So long, O wind, shalt thou blow:
Return to your bounds and cease,
And let the earth have peace!"
O Music, lead the way--
The stormy night is past,
Lift up our hearts to greet the day,
And the joy of things that last.
The dissonance and pain
That mortals must endure,
Are changed in thine immortal strain
To something great and pure.
True love will conquer strife,
And strength from conflict flows,
For discord is the thorn of life
And harmony the rose.

Music: breathing of statues. Perhaps:
silence of paintings. You language where all language
ends. You time
standing vertically on the motion of mortal hearts.
Feelings for whom? O you the transformation
of feelings into what?--: into audible landscape.
You stranger: music. You heart-space
grown out of us. The deepest space in us,
which, rising above us, forces its way out,--
holy departure:
when the innermost point in us stands
outside, as the most practiced distance, as the other
side of the air:
pure,
boundless,
no longer habitable.
Translated by Stephen Mitchell

I - CRAZY JANE AND THE BISHOP
BRING me to the blasted oak
That I, midnight upon the stroke,
(All find safety in the tomb.)
May call down curses on his head
Because of my dear Jack that's dead.
Coxcomb was the least he said:
The solid man and the coxcomb.
Nor was he Bishop when his ban
Banished Jack the Journeyman,
(All find safety in the tomb.)
Nor so much as parish priest,
Yet he, an old book in his fist,
Cried that we lived like beast and beast:
The solid man and the coxcomb.
The Bishop has a skin, God knows,
Wrinkled like the foot of a goose,
(All find safety in the tomb.)
Nor can he hide in holy black
The heron's hunch upon his back,
But a birch-tree stood my Jack:
The solid man and the coxcomb.
Jack had my virginity,
And bids me to the oak, for he
(all find safety in the tomb.)
Wanders out into the night
And there is shelter under it,
But should that other come, I spit:
The solid man and the coxcomb.
II - CRAZY JANE REPROVED
I CARE not what the sailors say:
All those dreadful thunder-stones,
All that storm that blots the day
Can but show that Heaven yawns;
Great Europa played the fool
That changed a lover for a bull.
Fol de rol, fol de rol.
To round that shell's elaborate whorl,
Adorning every secret track
With the delicate mother-of-pearl,
Made the joints of Heaven crack:
So never hang your heart upon
A roaring, ranting journeyman.
Fol de rol, fol de rol.
III - CRAZY JANE ON THE DAY OF JUDGMENT
'LOVE is all
Unsatisfied
That cannot take the whole
Body and soul';
And that is what Jane said.
'Take the sour
If you take me
I can scoff and lour
And scold for an hour.'
'That's certainly the case,' said he.
'Naked I lay,
The grass my bed;
Naked and hidden away,
That black day';
And that is what Jane said.
'What can be shown?
What true love be?
All could be known or shown
If Time were but gone.'
'That's certainly the case,' said he.
IV - CRAZY JANE AND JACK THE JOURNEYMAN
I KNOW, although when looks meet
I tremble to the bone,
The more I leave the door unlatched
The sooner love is gone,
For love is but a skein unwound
Between the dark and dawn.
A lonely ghost the ghost is
That to God shall come;
I -- love's skein upon the ground,
My body in the tomb --
Shall leap into the light lost
In my mother's womb.
But were I left to lie alone
In an empty bed,
The skein so bound us ghost to ghost
When he turned his head
passing on the road that night,
Mine must walk when dead.
V - CRAZY JANE ON GOD
THAT lover of a night
Came when he would,
Went in the dawning light
Whether I would or no;
Men come, men go;
All things remain in God.
Banners choke the sky;
Men-at-arms tread;
Armoured horses neigh
In the narrow pass:
All things remain in God.
Before their eyes a house
That from childhood stood
Uninhabited, ruinous,
Suddenly lit up
From door to top:
All things remain in God.
I had wild Jack for a lover;
Though like a road
That men pass over
My body makes no moan
But sings on:
All things remain in God.
VI - CRAZY JANE TALKS WITH THE BISHOP
I MET the Bishop on the road
And much said he and I.
'Those breasts are flat and fallen now,
Those veins must soon be dry;
Live in a heavenly mansion,
Not in some foul sty.'
'Fair and foul are near of kin,
And fair needs foul,' I cried.
'My friends are gone, but that's a truth
Nor grave nor bed denied,
Learned in bodily lowliness
And in the heart's pride.
'A woman can be proud and stiff
When on love intent;
But Love has pitched his mansion in
The place of excrement;
For nothing can be sole or whole
That has not been rent.'
VII - CRAZY JANE GROWN OLD LOOKS AT THE DANCERS
I FOUND that ivory image there
Dancing with her chosen youth,
But when he wound her coal-black hair
As though to strangle her, no scream
Or bodily movement did I dare,
Eyes under eyelids did so gleam;
Love is like the lion's tooth.
When She, and though some said she played
I said that she had danced heart's truth,
Drew a knife to strike him dead,
I could but leave him to his fate;
For no matter what is said
They had all that had their hate;
Love is like the lion's tooth.
Did he die or did she die?
Seemed to die or died they both?
God be with the times when I
Cared not a thraneen for what chanced
So that I had the limbs to try
Such a dance as there was danced --
Love is like the lion's tooth.
VIII - GIRL'S SONG
I WENT out alone
To sing a song or two,
My fancy on a man,
And you know who.
Another came in sight
That on a stick relied
To hold himself upright;
I sat and cried.
And that was all my song --
When everything is told,
Saw I an old man young
Or young man old?
IX - YOUNG MAN'S SONG
'SHE will change,' I cried.
'Into a withered crone.'
The heart in my side,
That so still had lain,
In noble rage replied
And beat upon the bone:
'Uplift those eyes and throw
Those glances unafraid:
She would as bravely show
Did all the fabric fade;
No withered crone I saw
Before the world was made.'
Abashed by that report,
For the heart cannot lie,
I knelt in the dirt.
And all shall bend the knee
To my offended heart
Until it pardon me.
X - HER ANXIETY
EARTH in beauty dressed
Awaits returning spring.
All true love must die,
Alter at the best
Into some lesser thing.
Prove that I lie.
Such body lovers have,
Such exacting breath,
That they touch or sigh.
Every touch they give,
Love is nearer death.
Prove that I lie.
XI - HIS CONFIDENCE
UNDYING love to buy
I wrote upon
The corners of this eye
All wrongs done.
What payment were enough
For undying love?
I broke my heart in two
So hard I struck.
What matter? for I know
That out of rock,
Out of a desolate source,
Love leaps upon its course.
XII - LOVE'S LONELINESS
OLD fathers, great-grandfathers,
Rise as kindred should.
If ever lover's loneliness
Came where you stood,
Pray that Heaven protect us
That protect your blood.
The mountain throws a shadow,
Thin is the moon's horn;
What did we remember
Under the ragged thorn?
Dread has followed longing,
And our hearts are torn.
XIII - HER DREAM
I DREAMED as in my bed I lay,
All night's fathomless wisdom come,
That I had shorn my locks away
And laid them on Love's lettered tomb:
But something bore them out of sight
In a great tumult of the air,
And after nailed upon the night
Berenice's burning hair.
XIV - HIS BARGAIN
WHO talks of Plato's spindle;
What set it whirling round?
Eternity may dwindle,
Time is unwound,
Dan and Jerry Lout
Change their loves about.
However they may take it,
Before the thread began
I made, and may not break it
When the last thread has run,
A bargain with that hair
And all the windings there.
XV - THREE THINGS
'O CRUEL Death, give three things back,'
Sang a bone upon the shore;
'A child found all a child can lack,
Whether of pleasure or of rest,
Upon the abundance of my breast':
A bone wave-whitened and dried in the wind.
'Three dear things that women know,'
Sang a bhone upon the shore;
'A man if I but held him so
When my body was alive
Found all the pleasure that life gave':
A bone wave-whitened and dried in the wind.
'The third thing that I think of yet,'
Sang a bone upon the shore,
'Is that morning when I met
Face to face my rightful man
And did after stretch and yawn':
A bone wave-whitened and dried in the wind.
XVI - LULLABY
BELOVED, may your sleep be sound
That have found it where you fed.
What were all the world's alarms
To mighty paris when he found
Sleep upon a golden bed
That first dawn in Helen's arms?
Sleep, beloved, such a sleep
As did that wild Tristram know
When, the potion's work being done,
Roe could run or doe could leap
Under oak and beechen bough,
Roe could leap or doe could run;
Such a sleep and sound as fell
Upon Eurotas' grassy bank
When the holy bird, that there
Accomplished his predestined will,
From the limbs of Leda sank
But not from her protecting care.
XVII - AFTER LONG SILENCE
SPEECH after long silence; it is right,
All other lovers being estranged or dead,
Unfriendly lamplight hid under its shade,
The curtains drawn upon unfriendly night,
That we descant and yet again descant
Upon the supreme theme of Art and Song:
Bodily decrepitude is wisdom; young
We loved each other and were ignorant.
XVIII - MAD AS THE MIST AND SNOW
BOLT and bar the shutter,
For the foul winds blow:
Our minds are at their best this night,
And I seem to know
That everything outside us is
Mad as the mist and snow.
Horace there by Homer stands,
Plato stands below,
And here is Tully's open page.
How many years ago
Were you and I unlettered lads
Mad as the mist and snow?
You ask what makes me sigh, old friend,
What makes me shudder so?
I shudder and I sigh to think
That even Cicero
And many-minded Homer were
Mad as the mist and snow.
XIX - THOSE DANCING DAYS ARE GONE
COME, let me sing into your ear;
Those dancing days are gone,
All that silk and satin gear;
Crouch upon a stone,
Wrapping that foul body up
In as foul a rag:
I carry the sun in a golden cup.
The moon in a silver bag.
Curse as you may I sing it through;
What matter if the knave
That the most could pleasure you,
The children that he gave,
Are somewhere sleeping like a top
Under a marble flag?
I carry the sun in a golden cup.
The moon in a silver bag.
I thought it out this very day.
Noon upon the clock,
A man may put pretence away
Who leans upon a stick,
May sing, and sing until he drop,
Whether to maid or hag:
I carry the sun in a golden cup,
The moon in a silver bag.
XX - 'I AM OF IRELAND'
AM of Ireland,
And the Holy Land of Ireland,
And time runs on,' cried she.
'Come out of charity,
Come dance with me in Ireland.'
One man, one man alone
In that outlandish gear,
One solitary man
Of all that rambled there
Had turned his stately head.
That is a long way off,
And time runs on,' he said,
'And the night grows rough.'
I am of Ireland,
And the Holy Land of Ireland,
And time runs on,' cried she.
'Come out of charity
And dance with me in Ireland.'
The fiddlers are all thumbs,
Or the fiddle-string accursed,
The drums and the kettledrums
And the trumpets all are burst,
And the trombone,' cried he,
'The trumpet and trombone,'
And cocked a malicious eye,
'But time runs on, runs on.'
I am of Ireland,
And the Holy Land of Ireland,
And time runs on,' cried she.
'Come out of charity
And dance with me in Ireland.'
XXI - THE DANCER AT CRUACHAN AND CRO-PATRICK
I, PROCLAIMING that there is
Among birds or beasts or men
One that is perfect or at peace.
Danced on Cruachan's windy plain,
Upon Cro-patrick sang aloud;
All that could run or leap or swim
Whether in wood, water or cloud,
Acclaiming, proclaiming, declaiming Him.
XXII - TOM THE LUNATIC
SANG old Tom the lunatic
That sleeps under the canopy:
'What change has put my thoughts astray
And eyes that had s-o keen a sight?
What has turned to smoking wick
Nature's pure unchanging light?
'Huddon and Duddon and Daniel O'Leary.
Holy Joe, the beggar-man,
Wenching, drinking, still remain
Or sing a penance on the road;
Something made these eyeballs weary
That blinked and saw them in a shroud.
'Whatever stands in field or flood,
Bird, beast, fish or man,
Mare or stallion, cock or hen,
Stands in God's unchanging eye
In all the vigour of its blood;
In that faith I live or die.'
XXIII - TOM AT CRUACHAN
ON Cruachan's plain slept he
That must sing in a rhyme
What most could shake his soul:
'The stallion Eternit
Mounted the mare of Time,
'Gat the foal of the world.'
XXIV - OLD TOM AGAIN
THINGS out of perfection sail,
And all their swelling canvas wear,
Nor shall the self-begotten fail
Though fantastic men suppose
Building-yard and stormy shore,
Winding-sheet and swaddling -- clothes.
XXV - THE DELPHIC ORACLE UPON PLOTINUS
BEHOLD that great Plotinus swim,
Buffeted by such seas;
Bland Rhadamanthus beckons him,
But the Golden Race looks dim,
Salt blood blocks his eyes.
Scattered on the level grass
Or winding through the grove
plato there and Minos pass,
There stately Pythagoras
And all the choir of Love.

The brilliant colors of the night
The soft spoken morning glow
My world can be so perfect
That’s why I love it so
Earthy tones surround me
With pop-up flowers born
Fragrances so delicious
In the dew of early morn
The sky lights up just for me
With each newly woven style
I put everything aside
To enjoy for a little while
Nature is so amazing to me
I love it every single day
Each morning is freshly exciting
In its own unique and perfect way!

First, then, I say, the mind which oft we call
The intellect, wherein is seated life's
Counsel and regimen, is part no less
Of man than hand and foot and eyes are parts
Of one whole breathing creature. But some hold
That sense of mind is in no fixed part seated,
But is of body some one vital state,-
Named "harmony" by Greeks, because thereby
We live with sense, though intellect be not
In any part: as oft the body is said
To have good health (when health, however, 's not
One part of him who has it), so they place
The sense of mind in no fixed part of man.
Mightily, diversly, meseems they err.
Often the body palpable and seen
Sickens, while yet in some invisible part
We feel a pleasure; oft the other way,
A miserable in mind feels pleasure still
Throughout his body- quite the same as when
A foot may pain without a pain in head.
Besides, when these our limbs are given o'er
To gentle sleep and lies the burdened frame
At random void of sense, a something else
Is yet within us, which upon that time
Bestirs itself in many a wise, receiving
All motions of joy and phantom cares of heart.
Now, for to see that in man's members dwells
Also the soul, and body ne'er is wont
To feel sensation by a "harmony"
Take this in chief: the fact that life remains
Oft in our limbs, when much of body's gone;
Yet that same life, when particles of heat,
Though few, have scattered been, and through the mouth
Air has been given forth abroad, forthwith
Forever deserts the veins, and leaves the bones.
Thus mayst thou know that not all particles
Perform like parts, nor in like manner all
Are props of weal and safety: rather those-
The seeds of wind and exhalations warm-
Take care that in our members life remains.
Therefore a vital heat and wind there is
Within the very body, which at death
Deserts our frames. And so, since nature of mind
And even of soul is found to be, as 'twere,
A part of man, give over "harmony"-
Name to musicians brought from Helicon,-
Unless themselves they filched it otherwise,
To serve for what was lacking name till then.
Whate'er it be, they're welcome to it- thou,
Hearken my other maxims.
Mind and soul,
I say, are held conjoined one with other,
And form one single nature of themselves;
But chief and regnant through the frame entire
Is still that counsel which we call the mind,
And that cleaves seated in the midmost breast.
Here leap dismay and terror; round these haunts
Be blandishments of joys; and therefore here
The intellect, the mind. The rest of soul,
Throughout the body scattered, but obeys-
Moved by the nod and motion of the mind.
This, for itself, sole through itself, hath thought;
This for itself hath mirth, even when the thing
That moves it, moves nor soul nor body at all.
And as, when head or eye in us is smit
By assailing pain, we are not tortured then
Through all the body, so the mind alone
Is sometimes smitten, or livens with a joy,
Whilst yet the soul's remainder through the limbs
And through the frame is stirred by nothing new.
But when the mind is moved by shock more fierce,
We mark the whole soul suffering all at once
Along man's members: sweats and pallors spread
Over the body, and the tongue is broken,
And fails the voice away, and ring the ears,
Mists blind the eyeballs, and the joints collapse,-
Aye, men drop dead from terror of the mind.
Hence, whoso will can readily remark
That soul conjoined is with mind, and, when
'Tis strook by influence of the mind, forthwith
In turn it hits and drives the body too.
And this same argument establisheth
That nature of mind and soul corporeal is:
For when 'tis seen to drive the members on,
To snatch from sleep the body, and to change
The countenance, and the whole state of man
To rule and turn,- what yet could never be
Sans contact, and sans body contact fails-
Must we not grant that mind and soul consist
Of a corporeal nature?- And besides
Thou markst that likewise with this body of ours
Suffers the mind and with our body feels.
If the dire speed of spear that cleaves the bones
And bares the inner thews hits not the life,
Yet follows a fainting and a foul collapse,
And, on the ground, dazed tumult in the mind,
And whiles a wavering will to rise afoot.
So nature of mind must be corporeal, since
From stroke and spear corporeal 'tis in throes.
Now, of what body, what components formed
Is this same mind I will go on to tell.
First, I aver, 'tis superfine, composed
Of tiniest particles- that such the fact
Thou canst perceive, if thou attend, from this:
Nothing is seen to happen with such speed
As what the mind proposes and begins;
Therefore the same bestirs itself more swiftly
Than aught whose nature's palpable to eyes.
But what's so agile must of seeds consist
Most round, most tiny, that they may be moved,
When hit by impulse slight. So water moves,
In waves along, at impulse just the least-
Being create of little shapes that roll;
But, contrariwise, the quality of honey
More stable is, its liquids more inert,
More tardy its flow; for all its stock of matter
Cleaves more together, since, indeed, 'tis made
Of atoms not so smooth, so fine, and round.
For the light breeze that hovers yet can blow
High heaps of poppy-seed away for thee
Downward from off the top; but, contrariwise,
A pile of stones or spiny ears of wheat
It can't at all. Thus, in so far as bodies
Are small and smooth, is their mobility;
But, contrariwise, the heavier and more rough,
The more immovable they prove. Now, then,
Since nature of mind is movable so much,
Consist it must of seeds exceeding small
And smooth and round. Which fact once known to thee,
Good friend, will serve thee opportune in else.
This also shows the nature of the same,
How nice its texture, in how small a space
'Twould go, if once compacted as a pellet:
When death's unvexed repose gets hold on man
And mind and soul retire, thou markest there
From the whole body nothing ta'en in form,
Nothing in weight. Death grants ye everything,
But vital sense and exhalation hot.
Thus soul entire must be of smallmost seeds,
Twined through the veins, the vitals, and the thews,
Seeing that, when 'tis from whole body gone,
The outward figuration of the limbs
Is unimpaired and weight fails not a whit.
Just so, when vanished the bouquet of wine,
Or when an unguent's perfume delicate
Into the winds away departs, or when
From any body savour's gone, yet still
The thing itself seems minished naught to eyes,
Thereby, nor aught abstracted from its weight-
No marvel, because seeds many and minute
Produce the savours and the redolence
In the whole body of the things. And so,
Again, again, nature of mind and soul
'Tis thine to know created is of seeds
The tiniest ever, since at flying-forth
It beareth nothing of the weight away.
Yet fancy not its nature simple so.
For an impalpable aura, mixed with heat,
Deserts the dying, and heat draws off the air;
And heat there's none, unless commixed with air:
For, since the nature of all heat is rare,
Athrough it many seeds of air must move.
Thus nature of mind is triple; yet those all
Suffice not for creating sense- since mind
Accepteth not that aught of these can cause
Sense-bearing motions, and much less the thoughts
A man revolves in mind. So unto these
Must added be a somewhat, and a fourth;
That somewhat's altogether void of name;
Than which existeth naught more mobile, naught
More an impalpable, of elements
More small and smooth and round. That first transmits
Sense-bearing motions through the frame, for that
Is roused the first, composed of little shapes;
Thence heat and viewless force of wind take up
The motions, and thence air, and thence all things
Are put in motion; the blood is strook, and then
The vitals all begin to feel, and last
To bones and marrow the sensation comes-
Pleasure or torment. Nor will pain for naught
Enter so far, nor a sharp ill seep through,
But all things be perturbed to that degree
That room for life will fail, and parts of soul
Will scatter through the body's every pore.
Yet as a rule, almost upon the skin
These motion aIl are stopped, and this is why
We have the power to retain our life.
Now in my eagerness to tell thee how
They are commixed, through what unions fit
They function so, my country's pauper-speech
Constrains me sadly. As I can, however,
I'll touch some points and pass. In such a wise
Course these primordials 'mongst one another
With intermotions that no one can be
From other sundered, nor its agency
Perform, if once divided by a space;
Like many powers in one body they work.
As in the flesh of any creature still
Is odour and savour and a certain warmth,
And yet from an of these one bulk of body
Is made complete, so, viewless force of wind
And warmth and air, commingled, do create
One nature, by that mobile energy
Assisted which from out itself to them
Imparts initial motion, whereby first
Sense-bearing motion along the vitals springs.
For lurks this essence far and deep and under,
Nor in our body is aught more shut from view,
And 'tis the very soul of all the soul.
And as within our members and whole frame
The energy of mind and power of soul
Is mixed and latent, since create it is
Of bodies small and few, so lurks this fourth,
This essence void of name, composed of small,
And seems the very soul of all the soul,
And holds dominion o'er the body all.
And by like reason wind and air and heat
Must function so, commingled through the frame,
And now the one subside and now another
In interchange of dominance, that thus
From all of them one nature be produced,
Lest heat and wind apart, and air apart,
Make sense to perish, by disseverment.
There is indeed in mind that heat it gets
When seething in rage, and flashes from the eyes
More swiftly fire; there is, again, that wind,
Much, and so cold, companion of all dread,
Which rouses the shudder in the shaken frame;
There is no less that state of air composed,
Making the tranquil breast, the serene face.
But more of hot have they whose restive hearts,
Whose minds of passion quickly seethe in rage-
Of which kind chief are fierce abounding lions,
Who often with roaring burst the breast o'erwrought,
Unable to hold the surging wrath within;
But the cold mind of stags has more of wind,
And speedier through their inwards rouses up
The icy currents which make their members quake.
But more the oxen live by tranquil air,
Nor e'er doth smoky torch of wrath applied,
O'erspreading with shadows of a darkling murk,
Rouse them too far; nor will they stiffen stark,
Pierced through by icy javelins of fear;
But have their place half-way between the two-
Stags and fierce lions. Thus the race of men:
Though training make them equally refined,
It leaves those pristine vestiges behind
Of each mind's nature. Nor may we suppose
Evil can e'er be rooted up so far
That one man's not more given to fits of wrath,
Another's not more quickly touched by fear,
A third not more long-suffering than he should.
And needs must differ in many things besides
The varied natures and resulting habits
Of humankind- of which not now can I
Expound the hidden causes, nor find names
Enough for all the divers shapes of those
Primordials whence this variation springs.
But this meseems I'm able to declare:
Those vestiges of natures left behind
Which reason cannot quite expel from us
Are still so slight that naught prevents a man
From living a life even worthy of the gods.
So then this soul is kept by all the body,
Itself the body's guard, and source of weal;
For they with common roots cleave each to each,
Nor can be torn asunder without death.
Not easy 'tis from lumps of frankincense
To tear their fragrance forth, without its nature
Perishing likewise: so, not easy 'tis
From all the body nature of mind and soul
To draw away, without the whole dissolved.
With seeds so intertwined even from birth,
They're dowered conjointly with a partner-life;
No energy of body or mind, apart,
Each of itself without the other's power,
Can have sensation; but our sense, enkindled
Along the vitals, to flame is blown by both
With mutual motions. Besides the body alone
Is nor begot nor grows, nor after death
Seen to endure. For not as water at times
Gives off the alien heat, nor is thereby
Itself destroyed, but unimpaired remains-
Not thus, I say, can the deserted frame
Bear the dissevering of its joined soul,
But, rent and ruined, moulders all away.
Thus the joint contact of the body and soul
Learns from their earliest age the vital motions,
Even when still buried in the mother's womb;
So no dissevering can hap to them,
Without their bane and ill. And thence mayst see
That, as conjoined is their source of weal,
Conjoined also must their nature be.
If one, moreover, denies that body feel,
And holds that soul, through all the body mixed,
Takes on this motion which we title "sense"
He battles in vain indubitable facts:
For who'll explain what body's feeling is,
Except by what the public fact itself
Has given and taught us? "But when soul is parted,
Body's without all sense." True!- loses what
Was even in its life-time not its own;
And much beside it loses, when soul's driven
Forth from that life-time. Or, to say that eyes
Themselves can see no thing, but through the same
The mind looks forth, as out of opened doors,
Is- a hard saying; since the feel in eyes
Says the reverse. For this itself draws on
And forces into the pupils of our eyes
Our consciousness. And note the case when often
We lack the power to see refulgent things,
Because our eyes are hampered by their light-
With a mere doorway this would happen not;
For, since it is our very selves that see,
No open portals undertake the toil.
Besides, if eyes of ours but act as doors,
Methinks that, were our sight removed, the mind
Ought then still better to behold a thing-
When even the door-posts have been cleared away.
Herein in these affairs nowise take up
What honoured sage, Democritus, lays down-
That proposition, that primordials
Of body and mind, each super-posed on each,
Vary alternately and interweave
The fabric of our members. For not only
Are the soul-elements smaller far than those
Which this our body and inward parts compose,
But also are they in their number less,
And scattered sparsely through our frame. And thus
This canst thou guarantee: soul's primal germs
Maintain between them intervals as large
At least as are the smallest bodies, which,
When thrown against us, in our body rouse
Sense-bearing motions. Hence it comes that we
Sometimes don't feel alighting on our frames
The clinging dust, or chalk that settles soft;
Nor mists of night, nor spider's gossamer
We feel against us, when, upon our road,
Its net entangles us, nor on our head
The dropping of its withered garmentings;
Nor bird-feathers, nor vegetable down,
Flying about, so light they barely fall;
Nor feel the steps of every crawling thing,
Nor each of all those footprints on our skin
Of midges and the like. To that degree
Must many primal germs be stirred in us
Ere once the seeds of soul that through our frame
Are intermingled 'gin to feel that those
Primordials of the body have been strook,
And ere, in pounding with such gaps between,
They clash, combine and leap apart in turn.
But mind is more the keeper of the gates,
Hath more dominion over life than soul.
For without intellect and mind there's not
One part of soul can rest within our frame
Least part of time; companioning, it goes
With mind into the winds away, and leaves
The icy members in the cold of death.
But he whose mind and intellect abide
Himself abides in life. However much
The trunk be mangled, with the limbs lopped off,
The soul withdrawn and taken from the limbs,
Still lives the trunk and draws the vital air.
Even when deprived of all but all the soul,
Yet will it linger on and cleave to life,-
Just as the power of vision still is strong,
If but the pupil shall abide unharmed,
Even when the eye around it's sorely rent-
Provided only thou destroyest not
Wholly the ball, but, cutting round the pupil,
Leavest that pupil by itself behind-
For more would ruin sight. But if that centre,
That tiny part of eye, be eaten through,
Forthwith the vision fails and darkness comes,
Though in all else the unblemished ball be clear.
'Tis by like compact that the soul and mind
Are each to other bound forevermore.

As I walked along the path
Crushing grass under with wrath
That wanted to whisper sounds
Left unsaid beyond bounds
As I rested under the tree
One blue leaf fell on me
That wanted to conspire with light
Planning future far in sight
As I passed a well-known tree
One blue and blushing smile on me
That  brought me back my youth
And sure, well did it soothe
As I passed the mountain still
Stopping wind to play on hill
Flirting flower and dancing deer
Lulling leaves all keep me near
As the brooding breeze did wink
And the fading sun did sink
Bringing me my memory past
Dissolving the moon at last
When I left a lasting sigh
Dancing waves did keep me high

Sun glows at
The break of dawn.
Trees with outstretched hands
Flirt with the winds.
Embellished with
Pleasant sounds
From birds and the bees
It's Nature at ease.
(20 April,2006)

I always thought,
What is there in the nature?
Why everyone wants to be in the nature’s lap?
Where is the end of this nature?
Who has made this nature?
When will it destroy?
So one day,
To find solution to these 5 w’s
Went away from pollution,
And found a place,
Behind a
Beautiful, huge, leafy
Tree
I spend just 15 minutes
In the green glory
And instead of having my answers with me,
My questions took a new meaning.
Now I thought,
What is not there in this nature?
Why some people doesn’t want to sit in the nature’s lap?
Why one wants to end this nature?
Who is destroying this nature?
Why will it destroy?

314
Nature—sometimes sears a Sapling—
Sometimes—scalps a Tree—
Her Green People recollect it
When they do not die—
Fainter Leaves—to Further Seasons—
Dumbly testify—
We—who have the Souls—
Die oftener—Not so vitally—

Why challenge Mother Nature, man, in vain?
Accept her superiority and pow’r;
One can’t traverse with equal speed each lane;
Take blame for every flood, wind, drought and show’r!
When hot, the excess steam must be let off;
When cold, one needs to cover to gain heat;
When Nature’s in a furious mood, don’t scoff;
Find solutions better and don’t retreat.
When Nature sends a breeze, man loves her touch;
When Nature blows a wind fierce, men rant, rave;
Yet, Nature balances her acts so much;
From natural disasters, man ought to save.
Align with Nature: Love the way she works;
But cursing God brings man more Nature’s jerks!
Dr John Celes 9-6-2005

The bird born in an aviary and raised in captivity
Can never live in Nature's World amongst the wild and free
Even the birds of it's own species will peck it till it die
So never allow your feathered pet the freedom of the sky.
I am naive of the laws of Mother Nature and naive of Nature's way
And for interfering with Nature there is some price to pay
The bird born in captivity in a cage must remain
Why even it's own kind in the wilds would kill it is beyond me to explain
Humans try to manipulate Nature and Nature's creatures control
But Mother Nature far greater than Human kind her's is an eternal soul
For we are like Nature's Seasons we come to life and go
Yet of our  Earth Mother who feeds us so little we seem to know.
The bird born in captivity in a cage condemned to stay
For if released the other birds will kill it since this is Nature's way
And Mother Nature herself as old as father time
She claims the young and she claims the old and those still in their prime.

What being in rank-old nature should earlier have that breath been
That hére pérsonal tells off these heart-song powerful peals?—
A bush-browed, beetle-brówed bíllow is it?
With a soúth-wésterly wínd blústering, with a tide rolls reels
Of crumbling, fore-foundering, thundering all-surfy seas in; seen
Únderneath, their glassy barrel, of a fairy green.
. . . . . . . .
Or a jaunting vaunting vaulting assaulting trumpet telling

Open the window, and let the air
Freshly blow upon face and hair,
And fill the room, as it fills the night,
With the breath of the rain's sweet might.
Hark! the burthen, swift and prone!
And how the odorous limes are blown!
Stormy Love's abroad, and keeps
Hopeful coil for gentle sleeps.
Not a blink shall burn to-night
In my chamber, of sordid light;
Nought will I have, not a window-pane,
'Twixt me and the air and the great good rain,
Which ever shall sing me sharp lullabies;
And God's own darkness shall close mine eyes;
And I will sleep, with all things blest,
In the pure earth-shadow of natural rest.

We are apart; the city grows quiet between us,
She hushes herself, for midnight makes heavy her eyes,
The tangle of traffic is ended, the cars are empty,
Five streets divide us, and on them the moonlight lies.
Oh are you asleep, or lying awake, my lover?
Open your dreams to my love and your heart to my words.
I send you my thoughts--the air between us is laden,
My thoughts fly in at your window, a flock of wild birds.

Deep in the night the cry of a swallow,
Under the stars he flew,
Keen as pain was his call to follow
Over the world to you.
Love in my heart is a cry forever
Lost as the swallow's flight,
Seeking for you and never, never
Stilled by the stars at night.

I longed for companionship rather,
But my companions I always wished farther.
And now in the desolate night
I think only of the people i should like to bite.

Night is my sister, and how deep in love,
How drowned in love and weedily washed ashore,
There to be fretted by the drag and shove
At the tide's edge, I lie—these things and more:
Whose arm alone between me and the sand,
Whose voice alone, whose pitiful breath brought near,
Could thaw these nostrils and unlock this hand,
She could advise you, should you care to hear.
Small chance, however, in a storm so black,
A man will leave his friendly fire and snug
For a drowned woman's sake, and bring her back
To drip and scatter shells upon the rug.
No one but Night, with tears on her dark face,
Watches beside me in this windy place.

OF him I love day and night, I dream'd I heard he was dead;
And I dream'd I went where they had buried him I love--but he was not
in that place;
And I dream'd I wander'd, searching among burial-places, to find him;
And I found that every place was a burial-place;
The houses full of life were equally full of death, (this house is
now;)
The streets, the shipping, the places of amusement, the Chicago,
Boston, Philadelphia, the Mannahatta, were as full of the dead
as of the living,
And fuller, O vastly fuller, of the dead than of the living;
--And what I dream'd I will henceforth tell to every person and age,
And I stand henceforth bound to what I dream'd;
And now I am willing to disregard burial-places, and dispense with
them;                                                        10
And if the memorials of the dead were put up indifferently
everywhere, even in the room where I eat or sleep, I should be
satisfied;
And if the corpse of any one I love, or if my own corpse, be duly
render'd to powder, and pour'd in the sea, I shall be
satisfied;
Or if it be distributed to the winds, I shall be satisfied.

The night-flood rakes upon the stony shore;
Along the rugged cliffs and chalky caves
Mourns the hoarse Ocean, seeming to deplore
All that are buried in his restless waves—
Mined by corrosive tides, the hollow rock
Falls prone, and rushing from its turfy height,
Shakes the broad beach with long-resounding shock,
Loud thundering on the ear of sullen Night;
Above the desolate and stormy deep,
Gleams the wan Moon, by floating mist opprest;
Yet here while youth, and health, and labour sleep,
Alone I wander—Calm untroubled rest,
"Nature's soft nurse," deserts the sigh-swoln breast,
And shuns the eyes, that only wake to weep!

No engines shrieking rescue storm the night,
And hose and hydrant cannot here avail;
The flames laugh high and fling their challenging light,
And clouds turn gray and black from silver-pale.
The fire leaps out and licks the ancient walls,
And the big building bends and twists and groans.
A bar drops from its place; a rafter falls
Burning the flowers. The wind in frenzy moans.
The watchers gaze, held wondering by the fire,
The dwellers cry their sorrow to the crowd,
The flames beyond themselves rise higher, higher,
To lose their glory in the frowning cloud,
Yielding at length the last reluctant breath.
And where life lay asleep broods darkly death.

Athwart the bed
I watch the moonbeams cast a trail
So bright, so cold, so frail,
That for a space it gleams
Like hoar-frost on the margin of my dreams.
I raise my head, --
The splendid moon I see:
Then droop my head,
And sink to dreams of thee --
My Fatherland, of thee!

An ocean of unseen tears
Pulsing through my veins,
Taking the rightful place of my boiling blood,
Causing my mind, body and soul to flood,
Making my heart chill,
And my emotions quiver,
As I pledge deeper and deeper into that secret filled river.

The bubbles of the ocean are
very special to me
because the feeling of
the bubbles between your
toes when you walk by the
the waves as they are crashing onto the shore
reminds me of you and me together on the beach.
when you and I walk so slowly back to my beach house
and at the same time we are holding hands
titly as we walk on the shore
by the crashing bubbly waves.
No wonder I love the bubbly feeling between my toes.
They remind me of the special times we had with each other
on the beach together.

You  Time
don't try to hibernate
near my sand shores,
the souls you have pierced
through the needles
write in ink that is black
an epitaph for your memory
a sincere condolence note,
You Time
don't sing that song again
hide not the shadows
behind your wheels.
You standstill time
In wheels from noon to night
you run to reach the same
single point
in that rhythmless tune
don't hang above
my shores like a conqueror
I am ocean
Indian Ocean
November  8,2009

Your voice is like gentle whispers of the wind
Gently blowing in my ears.
The sun of your smile kisses my skin
And melts all within me.
The waves wrapping around me with warm arms
Gently smoothing the rough edges.
With fingers that caress my body
And feel the inner soul.
My open mind of ocean waves
Opens my heart to see inside.
The gentleness of heart and mind
Washing away all troubled thoughts.
(1-18-2009)

inhaling the ocean breeze and feeling it empty my lungs makes me feel completely intact
i can taste the salt in its entirety on my tongue and i try to scrape it all off with my front teeth
i feel the waves roaring over my heart, liberating it from veins and its arteries, the sea filling the orifices of my organs
the shores stones crowd at my toes and break my skin, but i am cleansed
i stride into the water and it seeps into my nostrils and my intellect becomes infiltrated by the sea, my lungs are suffocated by the wet
and i am completely intact

So...why are my feet dry?
Why ask what I want to see,
Then click the remote on
'Deadliest Catch'?
My love (read that as occupant) ,
Are you convincing me...
If there was just ONE woman
On the jury,
I'd never be convicted?
Why ask what I was doing
With a screwdriver last night...
When your car won't start this
Morning?
Oh. Nuthin...just wire connectors
To the injectors,
Timing chain and intake
Manifold.
Lil sis had two brothers.
Piss me off. Go right ahead.
You ain't seen your transmission
Yet...
Your mechanic will...

Stole a starfish
from an ocean
snatched from the bottom
of the sea
making it
into a paperweight
holding down
unruly poems
trying to escape
on a passing breeze.
The ghost of
an ocean
hiding in a shell
so female
Mother of Pearl
whispering
in my ear
the sound
of my own
blood.

They that go down to the sea in ships, that do business in great waters, these see the works of the Lord, and his wonders in the deep.
~ Psalm cvii. 23, 24.
HE that in venturous barks hath been
A wanderer on the deep,
Can tell of many an awful scene,
Where storms for ever sweep.
For many a fair, majestic sight
Hath met his wandering eye,
Beneath the streaming northern light,
Or blaze of Indian sky.
Go! ask him of the whirlpool's roar,
Whose echoing thunder peals
Loud, as if rushed along the shore
An army's chariot wheels;
Of icebergs, floating o'er the main,
Or fixed upon the coast,
Like glittering citadel or fane,
'Mid the bright realms of frost;
Of coral rocks, from waves below
In steep ascent that tower,
And fraught with peril, daily grow,
Formed by an insect's power;
Of sea-fires, which at dead of night
Shine o'er the tides afar,
And make th' expanse of ocean bright
As heaven, with many a star.
Oh God! thy name they well may praise,
Who to the deep go down,
And trace the wonders of thy ways,
Where rocks and billows frown.
If glorious be that awful deep,
No human power can bind,
What then art Thou, who bidst it keep
Within its bounds confined!
Let heaven and earth in praise unite,
Eternal praise to Thee,
Whose word can rouse the tempest's might,
Or still the raging sea!

When the sun sets over the ocean
when the moon begins to rest
she sits at the ocean’s beach
its red cloak disappears in the west.
Each evening she yearns for its beauty
the feeling cannot be surpassed
she wishes its elegance would prevail
but like a ship it lowers its mast.
Soon she’ll be as one with the sunset
the sickness has taken its toll
the thought of resting in its magnificence
lulls her heart and soul
Dedicated to Debbie Wherland

Alas! The city of love and fine arts,
the city of romantic lovely hearts,
where in the bosom is a pink rose flower,
the amazing and enchanting Eiffel Tower,
the blue perfume of Evening in Paris,
the winds feel proud on dancing in Paris
where art promotes love,  peace and romance,
where one is free to sing and dance,
where couples forget all their fears,
where coral smiles can wipe the tears,
wherever I look I see beauty-abundance,
smiling colors and dancing fragrance,
that inspire the brush, that inspire the pen,
who are the extremists, are they men?
What's their faith, do they believe in ethics,
No, they're satanic tools, in fact,
I can only condemn, that's how I react!

The sun, a glass marble shines on innocense.
I lie in short grass, looking into the future.
The moon- a shiny biscut covers the clouds.
And midnight bleeds into childhood dreams..
The watch hands turn into a foreign country.
The war passed, I standown in rags.
Looking thru the back glass of a Rambler Station Wagon.
Childhood dreams escape as the dust.
I smell Evening in Paris.
The wrinkles in skin and shirt pressed by time.
I lie in short grass, looking into the past.

It's my party and I'll cry if I want to
Cry if I want to, cry if I want to
You would cry too if it happened to you
Nobody knows where my 50 cent has gone
But I danced left and right the same time
Why was he holding his mike
When the part is to be mine
It's my party and I'll cry if I want to
Cry if I want to, cry if I want to
You would cry too if it happened to you
Then all my 50 Cent Jams kept people dancing all night
But leave me alone for a while
'Til 50 cent is dancing with me
I've got no reason to smile
It's my party and I'll cry if I want to
Cry if I want to, cry if I want to
You would cry too if it happened to you
50 cent and his boys just walked thru the door
Like a King and his page
Oh what a Super Bowl surprise
When he said “Get the F%#k off of my stage”
It's my party and I'll cry if I want to
Cry if I want to, cry if I want to
You would cry too if it happened to you
Oh-oh-oh It's my party and I'll cry if I want to
Cry if I want to, cry if I want to.....
2-5-2008

Ms.Paris what is Paris?
Eiffel Towers beauty,
Disneyland's adventure,
Historically religious.
Its all step by step to your
destination,
Only 1 street lamp,
Owls Go starring curiously.
A long way in history,
A lot for a pray to God Almighty.
Really amazing Sacre Coeur,
and Notre Dame church.
Ms.Paris is it really Paris?

She sits and reads her livre de poche
And drinks her glass vin rouge,
And in her eyes are fragile tears
That secretly perfuse;
She is a lonely frightened bird
Who stares intent, head bent on words
Sitting at her cafe table
Afraid of life, a hopeless fable.
Claude summoned with a crooking finger,
She lonely, rescued, tried to linger;
She lived with him La Vie Boheme
Sat at his feet and worshipped him.
He tired of his petite jeune fille
Who knelt so grateful at his knee;
With palette knife she slashed her wrists;
Broke in upon his latest tyrst.
Claude bound her veins and carried her
To a summoned ambulance;
La Folle Americaine restrained,
And vite, expelled from France.
She sits alone
In the Day Room sun
Beside the plexiglass;
A book of Sartre in her lap,
A cracker, her repast;
Claude did not come
To visit her
While on his State-side trip:
She ate
Crushed grapes from
Spearing thumb
And kissed his finger tips.

Al Godillot, Gambier, Galopeau,
Wolf-Pleyel - O Robinets! -
Menier, - O Chirsts! - Leperdriel!
Kinck, Jacob, Bonbonnel!
Veuillot, Tropmann, Augier!
Gill, Mendes, Manuel, Guido Gonin! -
Basket of the Graces! L'Herisse!
Unctuous waxes!
Old loaves, spirits!
Blind men! -
but then who knows? -
Beadles, Enghien. -
In one's own home!
Let's be Christian!

The filthy guest has gone? You'll need a wash:
But London will not wait to kiss your hand.
We have the bombing. But you had the Boche—
And we know which is easier to stand.
August 27,1944

Because he coveted beauty
above wisdom or power,
death would be his destiny.
Wisdom may have saved him.
Yet he deceived himself
to believe a mortal man,
could possess such loveliness,
even though he was a prince.
The fairest maiden of all,
the daughter of the Swan,
was wed to a Greek King,
but she did not love him.
Still in alliances of death,
armies swore protection
of their honored Queen,
and the honor of the King.
Yet goddesses conspired,
and Eros fired love's arrow
ensuring Helen's passion.
Thus the Prince was doomed.
Paris would die for love,
for abduction of the Queen
brought war and retribution,
and Troy was razed to dust.

Ved en Vens Afrejse til Paris!'
Mel. Jeg er et Søndagsbarn!
Hør Venners Stemme: drik og spiis!
Thi snart, saa er Du i Paris,
Og nyder der, ja, Gud veed hvad,
Men det er ei den danske Mad!
Paa Boulevarden skal Du gaae;
Gud give at vi saae derpaa!
I Omnibus og i Coucou,
Hvo er saa lystig vel, som Du!
Vi see Dig alt halv udenlandsk,
Grisetter smaa Dig lære Fransk;
Du reiser bort som Nordens Iis,
Men kommer hjem som — ak Paris!
Du oversættes skal paa Fransk,
Originalen er dog Dansk,
Dit Træk med Hovedet, dit Smiil -
Nei, aldrig glemmes det Emil!
Skjøndt Hjertet sidder lidt paatvers,
Skal Visen aande kun Comers!
Igjennem Taarer kan man lee!
Farvel! farvel! det Bedste skee!

You sing
I will be the mountain and hold your voice deep inside
You feel
I will be the earth and keep your vibrations in my core
You cry
I will be the ocean keeping your sacred drops alive
You chant
I will be the holy hymn, we shall soar
You fly
I will be the sky, always holding you high
You dance
I will be the music that you wore

Knocking the doors
Of my senses
My heart soars....
Urgent whispers, getting crisper
Beckoning, calling
My heart stirs...
Voices from past life?
Heart pierced by his knife
My heart cries....
Open the Door
Whats in store
My heart roars....
Oh God, whats that?
Bolt the doors
My heart combats....
I cant be yours
Let me be.
My heart implores....
In  peace
That my plea
My heart is on lease...
Lets open the gates
To our next lifetime
My heart waits...

Lost in the vortex of my thoughts
Seeking a vision that got lost
Fire consumed or a lost monsoon
Parched earth awaiting a boon
A solitary traveller in an undulating desert
that got lost....
Come show me the way
In your light, everything is clear
And its a sunny day
In your absence, its all dark and queer
All thoughts gone astray
Come show me the way
In your sound, everything is music to the ears
To which I dance and sway
In your absence, cacophony blares
All notes dark and gray
Come show me the way
In your touch, everything is pure
With a bright spark and a ray
In your absence, cannot endure
Even my own skin, t'is like clay

Passion Flower recalls
The agony of His death
Nature thus reflects

My passion
Found me
Many years ago
And what is my passion?
My passion is poetry

My beast has been awakened.
I shiver from its reverie.
My desire raised in a breath.
The beast hungers for you.
Candlelight flashes across your face.
Eyes intoxicated with lust.
I want you.
I can't think when you have been close.
Nothing is right.
Nothing is wrong.
Need overtakes me and I am a slave to it.
A slave to you.
My beast hungers.
Still.
Copyright 2006 A.J. McKinley

Flames of raging lust,
thoughts of fiery dust,
sparkling kindled hearts
blazing in the dark.
Arms enfolding, holding tight,
bodies joining in the night,
hands soft and tender,
grasping, rending
flesh that lithely writhes
against their probing, sending
mind into ecstatic states;
to which you may relate.
Groaning, moaning
cries of joy,
crimson sounds
on pink rustled silk.
Penetrating shrieks
that thrill,
reaching down
to earth,
rising up so high,
and slowing
to a restful glow,
ambers of the heat
that flowed;
not anything
you don't already know
and most likely can relate.

The greatest love of all
He, who had sacrificed
Endured the wounds and pain
Pardon for all our sins
Against the hands of the enemies
Shouldered the weight of humanity
Showering eternal glory
In this world ruled by evil
Overpouring mercy for our sins
No one at times noticed
Once there was a love...
Forever saving-love...
Covering us a mantle of His protection
He, who is the risen Lord...
Ressurected for the salvation of the world
In His love that we have forsaken
Sanctifying grace we have abandoned
Together now in spirit we commemorate...
THE PASSION OF CHRIST

What is passion?
Please explain..
Lest my heart be torn apart
What is passion?
Is it the giving or receiving?
The feeling or believing?
The newness or the trueness?
The ups the downs...
The aches...the pains...
Is it a whirlwind?
A merry-go-round?
A turbulent storm...
That comes before the calm?
Is it lasting?
Does it wane?
If it's lost...
Will it ever find it's home again?
What is passion?
Please explain...
Lest my heart be torn apart

Peace is not a betrayal of this  beloved
Peace is a not a mere  humming song.
Peace is my  lovely girl
She  falling back to me
She is a  star that I can see here
I know you are   there, somewhere here
I’ll not  miss you  this curly hair
I’ll not want to  miss  the smell of  this beloved…..
I know you’ll come back some day
I’m praying that you  are   there, somewhere here
Hope you remember me appaling  again….
I’ll not  miss this purple lintel
I’ ll  not kiss this  lovely lint
Peace is not   really a  gossip
Peace is  not a mere hand on her purple  gown.
Peace is not a gypsy affair.
Peace is not  a gobbling  prayer
You falling  me back  again
The star that I can see in this soaring  altar
This star  I can see in a  dashed  anchor....
Hope you remember me again and again

So much has been written
About peace in the world,
Peace on earth, peace be with you,
Shalom.
Peace is more
Than the absence of war,
More than tolerance
More than acceptance.
There can never be peace
Between individuals or nations,
Until we are at peace with ourselves
That inner peace that passes understanding.

Why should such gloomy silence reign;
And why is all the house so drear,
When neither danger, sickness, pain,
Nor death, nor want have entered here?
We are as many as we were
That other night, when all were gay,
And full of hope, and free from care;
Yet, is there something gone away.
The moon without as pure and calm
Is shining as that night she shone;
but now, to us she brings no balm,
For something from our hearts is gone.
Something whose absence leaves a void,
A cheerless want in every heart.
Each feels the bliss of all destroyed
And mourns the change - but each apart.
The fire is burning in the grate
As redly as it used to burn,
But still the hearth is desolate
Till Mirth and Love with Peace return.
'Twas Peace that flowed from heart to heart
With looks and smiles that spoke of Heaven,
And gave us language to impart
The blissful thoughts itself had given.
Sweet child of Heaven, and joy of earth!
O, when will Man thy value learn?
We rudely drove thee from our hearth,
And vainly sigh for thy return.

Peace
Peace and peace
Peace and peace of mind
Are absolutely different
From one another.
I know, You know
And we have forgotten
What is known here
At this juncture, my dear,
And we find no creature.

Great cities seldom rest; if there be none
T' invade from far, they'll find worse foes at home.

Peace is a flower,
Peace is a bird.
Peace is the sun,
Peace is the moon.
Peace is you,
Peace is me.
Peace is what we want!

You virgins, that did late despair
To keep your wealth from cruel men,
Tie up in silk your careless hair:
Soft peace is come again.
Now lovers' eyes may gently shoot
A flame that will not kill;
The drum was angry, but the lute
Shall whisper what you will.
Sing Io, Io! for his sake
That hath restored your drooping heads;
With choice of sweetest flowers make
A garden where he treads;
Whilst we whole groves of laurel bring,
A petty triumph for his brow,
Who is the master of our spring
And all the bloom we owe.

(Isaiah, ix. 15-20)
Hear what God the Lord hath spoken,
"O my people, faint and few,
Comfortless, afflicted, broken,
Fair abodes I build for you.
Thorns of heartfelt tribulation
Shall no more perplex your ways;
You shall name your walls, Salvation,
And your gates shall all be Praise.
"There, like streams that feed the garden,
Pleasures without end shall flow,
For the Lord, your faith rewarding,
All His bounty shall bestow;
Still in undisturb'd possession
Peace and righteousness shall reign;
Never shall you feel oppression,
Hear the voice of war again.
"Ye no more your suns descending,
Waning moons no more shall see;
But your griefs forever ending,
Find eternal noon in me:
God shall rise, and shining o'er ye,
Change to day the gloom of night;
He, the Lord, shall be your glory,
God your everlasting light."

People wish to be settled. Only as long as they are unsettled is there any hope for them.
-- Thoreau
My life has been
the instrument
for a mouth
I have never seen,
breathing wind
which comes
from I know not
where,
arranging and changing
my moods,
so as to make
an opening
for his voice.
Or hers.
Muse, White Goddess
mother with invisible
milk,
androgynous god
in whose grip
I struggle,
turning this way and that,
believing that I chart
my life,
my loves,
when in fact
it is she, he,
who charts them--
all for the sake
of some
as yet unwritten poem.
Twisting in the wind,
twisting like a pirate
dangling in a cage
from a high seawall,
the wind whips
through my bones
making an instrument,
my back a xylophone,
my sex a triangle
chiming,
my lips stretched tight
as drumskins,
I no longer care
who is playing me,
but fear
makes the hairs
stand up
on the backs
of my hands
when I think
that she may stop.
And yet I long
for peace
as fervently as you do--
the sweet connubial bliss
that admits no
turbulence,
the settled life
that defeats poetry,
the hearth before which
children play--
not poets' children,
ragtag, neurotic, demon-ridden,
but the apple-cheeked children
of the bourgeoisie.
My daughter dreams
of peace
as I do:
marriage, proper house,
proper husband,
nourishing dreamless
sex,
love like a hot toddy,
or an apple pie.
But the muse
has other plans
for me
and you.
Puppet mistress,
dangling us
on this dark proscenium,
pulling our strings,
blowing us
toward Cornwall,
toward Venice, toward Delphi,
toward some lurching
counterpane,
a tent upheld
by one throbbing
blood-drenched pole--
her pen, her pencil,
the monolith
we worship,
underneath
the gleaming moon.

A beautiful dozen of pink roses
were delivered to our home today.
I didn't know who sent them
for on the note it didn't say.
It was our address, that was what I'd seen
but the name for whom it was sent, was for a, Mrs. Irene.
I read the note that was attached
in it read a message of friendship, love and hope.
'I hope you 're feeling better dear friend.'
this was what the senders note had wrote.
I told the delivery man
That there must be some mistake.
For my name is not, Mrs.Irene
that was the last home owner
so here's your flowers back, to take.
Mrs Irene didn't make it, that was what her husband said
she had battled cancer, and had fought it well.
But I think she sees the pink roses, maybe sent a bit too late
and is enjoying the sweetness of their flowers smell.

I sit on the bed...
waiting to finally meet you..
my heart's racing..
I cannot hide my excitement.
thoughts fill my mind, of how the night will turn out...
you knock, once, then enter the room.
everythings still as we take in eachother.
you hold your arms out..
and i walk into your embrace... wrapping my arms around your neck...
you whisper in my mouth i love you my  kay...
i love you too, love....
i smile... as you gently undress me..
i stare into your eyes, offering you no help,
but encouraging more...
you look at me as if to ask 'are you sure? '
i bite my lip and whisper ' whatever you want.'
you gently but eagerly push me back to the bed...
taking care of me..
devouring my love box..
our legs around eachothers neck...
i do the same... tending to your wand...
i'm yours... i whisper... teach me...
i learn the secrets of your life....of your love
and we share this special night together...
i awake... alone.... remembering the things  my love has taught me in my sleep.

I see the red pink nebulas of Orion
that only You are able to unravel
where other stars still are forming
and there’s a bright white light
that shines through it all
and the seven sisters that You alone
are binding together
and I know that You control the laws
of the heavens
and hold sway on earth
l’Envoi
that You will turn off the lights of that solar system,
the sun and moon
on Your predestined time and day
but Lord
I keep hoping for Your big appearing day
and wait like the cabbalistic doctrine
for You to return glorious
to this old earth.
[References:  Job 38: 31 & Isaiah 13: 10.]

Early on an April day
In the land of morning calm
Azaleas bloom pink
At sunrise with a bright salaam They bloom alone
Around a quiet place
Where men, animals and insects
make little havoc of rat-race Azaleas are no Cosmos flower
Standing by the roadside
Flirting, giggling and cheek-rubbing
Against passersby, so dignified
They only bloom pink
Like maidens' heart, so purified
Breathing free fresh air
In the morning glow, misty-eyed
They drift upon the river
Getting neither wet nor dried Azaleas refuse to be tainted
By evening glow on the west-side
Mellowing into a pink shade
Beneath the sun at eventide

Does not making you happy, with a snappier pink,
make you excited? Snap, snap...your lips did they...purse
this word, or discard it...?
Who would not die, to scream her oinks all there life,
do you fear, will these simple words,
, requested...now get me arrested...
New clean words, washed free, over and over again.
Do they really, sound quite like the others, in your mind..?
Blush me, I will blush you to death, i live for your blush.
your blush drowns me, in seas of pink, that make you oink.
Did you take all my blush?
Please wait, It for you, will make oceans more.

Pink is the new Black.
Salmon shirt for your office, goes well this season with that tie.
Father's Day gift from Macy's or did you find out from GQ.
No, it was your wife who told you.
It doesn't matter, we laugh at you all the same for wearing Pink.

Like a beautiful pink rose
She is in prime to bulldoze
Where ever she goes
Is well taken by those
Who know the grace and spirit
Which is ready to establish writ
By being always fit
With full force she can hit
Sublimity is her grace
Which determines her race
She has the graceful pace
Innocence plays on her face
I am victim just to see
Only on love plea
Where ever I happen to be
I am lost she is she
Col Muhammad Khalid Khan
Copyright 2014 Golden Glow

Say goodbye
In pink satin
A schoolgirl grown
Now gone
Her hair of blonde
Time twirled with gray
She slips away
As did our days
Of dance and sash
Pink satin flash
My memory stepped
In sepia stories
Shared in a vessel
JUST US
A ship of fools
Tied to the dock
Of yesterday's dreams
Watching sunsets
We'd never recapture
Believing then, we'd live forever
In the disco music melodies
We hummed in perfect harmony
And making waves where ever
We thought to cast our lines
Out of sight, yes
Out of mind, no
We flip through the dog-earred
Photo album pages
To find our young tanned faces
Without the wrinkles of worry
In the gaity of gravity
Still On our side
The details colors that painted
Our mural of friends
Ever slightly now fades pale
Pink satin.

Fair one, you did on me bestow
Comparisons too sweet to ow;
And but I found them sent from you
I durst not think they could be true.
But 'tis your uncontrolled power
Goddess-like to produce a flower,
And by your breath, without more seed,
Make that a Pink which was a Weed.
Because I would be loth to miss
So sweet a Metamorphosis,
Upon what stalk soere I grow
Disdain not you sometimes to blow
And cherish by your Virgin eye
What in your frown would droop and die:
So shall my thankful leaf repay
Perfumed wishes every day:
And o're your fortune breathe a spell
Which may his obligation tell,
Who though he nought but air can give
Must ever your (Sweet) creature live.

Through airy roads he wings his instant flight
To purer regions of celestial light;
Enlarg'd he sees unnumber'd systems roll,
Beneath him sees the universal whole,
Planets on planets run their destin'd round,
And circling wonders fill the vast profound.
Th' ethereal now, and now th' empyreal skies
With growing splendors strike his wond'ring eyes:
The angels view him with delight unknown,
Press his soft hand, and seat him on his throne;
Then smilling thus: 'To this divine abode,
'The seat of saints, of seraphs, and of God,
'Thrice welcome thou.'  The raptur'd babe replies,
'Thanks to my God, who snatch'd me to the skies,
'E'er vice triumphant had possess'd my heart,
'E'er yet the tempter had beguil d my heart,
'E'er yet on sin's base actions I was bent,
'E'er yet I knew temptation's dire intent;
'E'er yet the lash for horrid crimes I felt,
'E'er vanity had led my way to guilt,
'But, soon arriv'd at my celestial goal,
'Full glories rush on my expanding soul.'
Joyful he spoke: exulting cherubs round
Clapt their glad wings, the heav'nly vaults resound.
Say, parents, why this unavailing moan?
Why heave your pensive bosoms with the groan?
To Charles, the happy subject of my song,
A brighter world, and nobler strains belong.
Say would you tear him from the realms above
By thoughtless wishes, and prepost'rous love?
Doth his felicity increase your pain?
Or could you welcome to this world again
The heir of bliss? with a superior air
Methinks he answers with a smile severe,
'Thrones and dominions cannot tempt me there.'
But still you cry, 'Can we the sigh borbear,
'And still and still must we not pour the tear?
'Our only hope, more dear than vital breath,
'Twelve moons revolv'd, becomes the prey of death;
'Delightful infant, nightly visions give
'Thee to our arms, and we with joy receive,
'We fain would clasp the Phantom to our breast,
'The Phantom flies, and leaves the soul unblest.'
To yon bright regions let your faith ascend,
Prepare to join your dearest infant friend
In pleasures without measure, without end.

Said Hamlet to Ophelia,
I'll draw a sketch of thee,
What kind of pencil shall I use?
2B or not 2B?

If only I could write a beautiful love poem
I would write it special and only to you
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
So that we will forever remain so very very true
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
With more than a goodness like something new
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
Like the everlasting stay of the sky so blue
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
I would pray to God
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
I would work very hard for the Lord
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
With happiness the remain all through the year
f only I could write a beautiful love poem
Knowing that you will be very near
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
One so very very true
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
I would write it just for you

The light along the hills in the morning
comes down slowly, naming the trees
white, then coasting the ground for stones to nominate.
Notice what this poem is not doing.
A house, a house, a barn, the old
quarry, where the river shrugs--
how much of this place is yours?
Notice what this poem is not doing.
Every person gone has taken a stone
to hold, and catch the sun. The carving
says, "Not here, but called away."
Notice what this poem is not doing.
The sun, the earth, the sky, all wait.
The crowns and redbirds talk. The light
along the hills has come, has found you.
Notice what this poem has not done.

'My age, my beast!' - Osip Mandelstam
On the lips a taste of tolling we are blind
The light drifts like dust over faces
We wear masks on our genitals
You've heard of lighting cigarettes with banknotes we used to light ours with Jews
History is made of bricks you can't go through it
And bricks are made of bones and blood and
Bones and blood are made of little tiny circles that nothing can go through Except a piano with rabies
Blood gushes into, not from, our wounds
Vietnamese Cuban African bloods
Constellations of sperm upon our bodies
Drunk as dogs before our sons
The bearded foetus lines up at the evolution-trough
Swarmy bloods in the rabid piano
The air over Chicago is death's monogram
This is the Were-Age rushing past
Speed: 10,000 men per minute
This is the species bred of death
The manshriek of flesh
The lifeless sparks of flesh
Covering the deep drums of vision
O new era race-wars jugular-lightning
Dark glance bursting from the over-ripe future
Know we are not the smilelines of dreams
Nor the pores of the Invisible
Piano with rabies we are victorious over
The drum and the wind-chime
We bite back a voice that might have emerged
To tame these dead bodies aid wet ashes

This poem is for my wife.
I have made it plainly and honestly:
The mark is on it
Like the burl on the knife.
I have not made it for praise.
She has no more need for praise
Than summer has
Or the bright days.
In all that becomes a woman
Her words and her ways are beautiful:
Love's lovely duty,
the well-swept room.
Wherever she is there is sun
And time and a sweet air:
Peace is there,
Work done.
There are always curtains and flowers
And candles and baked bread
And a cloth spread
And a clean house.
Her voice when she sings is a voice
At dawn by a freshening spring
Where the wave leaps in the wind
And rejoices.
Wherever she is it is now.
It is here where the apples are:
Here in the stars,
In the quick hour.
The greatest and richest good,
My own life to live in,
This she has given me --
If giver could.

And if it snowed and snow covered the drive
he took a spade and tossed it to one side.
And always tucked his daughter up at night
And slippered her the one time that she lied.
And every week he tipped up half his wage.
And what he didn't spend each week he saved.
And praised his wife for every meal she made.
And once, for laughing, punched her in the face.
And for his mum he hired a private nurse.
And every Sunday taxied her to church.
And he blubbed when she went from bad to worse.
And twice he lifted ten quid from her purse.
Here's how they rated him when they looked back:
sometimes he did this, sometimes he did that.

Some say thronging cavalry, some say foot soldiers,
others call a fleet the most beautiful of
sights the dark earth offers, but I say it's what-
ever you love best.
And it's easy to make this understood by
everyone, for she who surpassed all human
kind in beauty, Helen, abandoning her
husband--that best of
men--went sailing off to the shores of Troy and
never spent a thought on her child or loving
parents: when the goddess seduced her wits and
left her to wander,
she forgot them all, she could not remember
anything but longing, and lightly straying
aside, lost her way. But that reminds me
now: Anactória,
she's not here, and I'd rather see her lovely
step, her sparkling glance and her face than gaze on
all the troops in Lydia in their chariots and
glittering armor.

My poem would eat nothing.
I tried giving it water
but it said no,
worrying me.
Day after day,
I held it up to the llight,
turning it over,
but it only pressed its lips
more tightly together.
It grew sullen, like a toad
through with being teased.
I offered it money,
my clothes, my car with a full tank.
But the poem stared at the floor.
Finally I cupped it in
my hands, and carried it gently
out into the soft air, into the
evening traffic, wondering how
to end things between us.
For now it had begun breathing,
putting on more and
more hard rings of flesh.
And the poem demanded the food,
it drank up all the water,
beat me and took my money,
tore the faded clothes
off my back,
said Shit,
and walked slowly away,
slicking its hair down.
Said it was going
over to your place.

This is the illicit still of poetry
half hidden in the dry ditch beyond the hedge
firewater drunk from an old tin mug
it takes the skin off your throat
and drops it into your glowing stomach
and you don’t ask but maybe
wild crab-apples, turnips,
a handful of stolen barley, an old boot,
perhaps an incautious rat
who drowned in the middle of
drinking a wild dream
such as rat never had before
this the raw stuff
untaxed by rules
out here in the unfenced fields
not much spelling, punctuation,
vocabulary, grammar,
metre, euphony; if Emily
had been a prizefighter
she’d have breathed like this
but drunk, frozen breath steaming in the night air
seated on an old apple box
the stars never were so bright
the heart so near

I read to the entire plebe class,
in two batches. Twice the hall filled
with bodies dressed alike, each toting
a copy of my book. What would my
shrink say, if I had one, about
such a dream, if it were a dream?
Question and answer time.
"Sir," a cadet yelled from the balcony,
and gave his name and rank, and then,
closing his parentheses, yelled
"Sir" again. "Why do your poems give
me a headache when I try
to understand them?" he asked. "Do
you want that?" I have a gift for
gentle jokes to defuse tension,
but this was not the time to use it.
"I try to write as well as I can
what it feels like to be human,"
I started, picking my way care-
fully, for he and I were, after
all, pained by the same dumb longings.
"I try to say what I don't know
how to say, but of course I can't
get much of it down at all."
By now I was sweating bullets.
"I don't want my poems to be hard,
unless the truth is, if there is
a truth." Silence hung in the hall
like a heavy fabric. My own
head ached. "Sir," he yelled. "Thank you. Sir."
Anonymous submission.

and there was the knocking on the door
that we were expecting
and it was the man
that we were expecting
with the questions we were expecting
to which answers were expected
by those who expect answers
as if life were like that
which for writers it is not
yes, tea was drunk
and after tea the tape recorder set up
so that what I said
I would continue to say
somewhere else
even when I changed my mind
here and nowhere else
and he said Ms Stein
what do you think of American poetry
and we said well it's American
and it's poetry
that's as it should be
and really that's all there is to say
and the man looked disappointed
so we asked him did he read poetry
and he said poetry no I dont read poetry
but my editor does
so I said it's really about Americans
living their lives
that's what American poetry is really about
because Americans move around
and so their words move around and
words in English have lost their intensity
but American words are always on the move
and they are more intense
yes, Americans living among Americans
and talking to their neighbours
if it's not about that
it's not really American poetry at all is it
if it's not about that
then why bother writing poetry
and the man was asking about a rose
being a rose being a rose and we said
for a hundred years the rose
has not been red in poetry
but now for the first time in a hundred years
the rose is red again
and the man looked at his watch
and said thank you Ms Stein
and was switching off his tape recorder
and a month later that
was what we said
in a  magazine much read
by Americans who mostly
are not poets no very few but we said it
we know that this is so
because we read it there
and we think that really
that was all there was to say
because that was all we think
is really important
about American Poetry
that the words move like Americans move
and that is exciting for a writer
and that is the important thing about
American Poetry

I once wrote some poetry - the best,
the finest POETRY
My POETRY came with a capital
"P".
My POETRY was distinguished
POETRY, proper, complete line of
Verse POETRY - honorable,
prehistoric, geographical POETRY
Divine, instinctive, even religious
POETRY -
I sent it to the magazines
The very good magazines
The very best magazines -
They returned it to me every time!
I once wrote some inferior POETRY
Low in style, irregular in measure
POETRY
Undignified, trivial, absurd POETRY
inadequate, mischievous, comic
POETRY
Some stuff like this - A CRIME -
I sent it to the magazines
The very good magazines
The very best magazines
They kept it every time!
Now, I ask of you - my question is
fair and brief - I ask
Of you - your ear I pray and beg you
give -
Shall I write intuitive,
comprehensive, reasoning
POETRY
Specific, Godlike, Capitol
committed POETRY
The sort I think will live?
Or shall I write inferior, very bad
POETRY - the kind that soon is
Dead - and send it to the magazines,
the very good, the best magazines
THAT I MAY LIVE INSTEAD!!!

The finite contemplating the infinite
The stardust male and female still flush with light
From exploding stars, seeding new possibilities, our true progenitors.
So that even God Himself must take note of our passing (in its season) ,
Such elemental purity of spirit, such shining stock do we hail from.
Thinkers cannot grasp the number of galaxies the universe holds
Let alone name them or divine their future, human brains too slow,
More galaxies than all the grains of sand from every beach on the planet.
Where once this metaphor was applied loosely to stars alone,
Now galaxies are what might be counted, counting stars unimaginable.
Oh we are clever and have our tricks to make us look wise,
Like when we prove that one kind of infinity is bigger than another,
But all infinities are truly beyond our ken, mere children who count
‘One, two, three, many, ' and think we have accomplished something.
In our childish wonder we are only newly aware of galactic reach,
Theoretically sure now that our universe does have a furthest edge,
But totally unaware of its dimensions or of its actual shape.
New maps of different galaxy locations in space surprise us too
As the distribution of galaxies follows an unimagined ribbon like pattern.
Galaxies are NOT evenly distributed throughout the mapped universe
But shoot off in flares like star shells on the 4th of July!
We are dreamers who woke one day to discover that once fixed stars
Are now time machines to those with eyes to see, revealing our past,
And to those with ears to hear comes the certain knowledge of the Big Bang.
Now, vision enhanced by scientific revelation, we can share with God,
‘Seek and you shall find, ' being the foundational faith of Science,
The wonders of this creation, several billion years past, naked before us,
As if we were there, reveling in its wonders (though now a cosmic rerun) ,
Sharing a nice glass of Merlot with God in front of His Big Screen,
(The miracle of buttered popcorn always tender, hot, and fresh! Yum!) ,
Looking back to times when even laws of physics had not matured yet,
Laws, which, perhaps, like human beings, still evolve, biding their time.
But tantalizingly fresh is the QUESTION of other universes
Which now skips across the surface of human thought horizon like a stone
Every bounce suggesting another universe's possibility,
And every impact seemingly perfectly elastic, with no loss of energy,
Leaving another new universe in its wake,
Rippling outward like concentric waves from a whale's breach,
On a salt sea/air interface that reflects our astonishment like a mirror!
God's kind of Poetry, a window into infinity,
A scaled down version of Divinity, almost human in fact,
The footprints of God's Son along a sea curving with the earth's surface,
Distant realities always just out of sight, but there still.
Calling us into service, calling us too to be Fishers of human souls,
To love to heights and depths beyond our understanding,
And in so doing, to in fact become God's Children,
Trusting Love, knowing Love, feeling Love, giving Love…
Millions of Prophets, Buddhas, Saints, Poets, all siblings of the Christ,
A living poem, universally true, surfeit of God's imagination,
Novice initiates of a Grace that fills every nook and cranny,
Penetrates all flesh, all bone, and saturates soul like a sponge.

Poetry,
you are an electric,
a magic, field--like the space
between a sleepwalker's outheld arms!

Sometimes I tremble like a storm-swept flower,
And seek to hide my tortured soul from thee.
Bowing my head in deep humility
Before the silent thunder of thy power.
Sometimes I flee before thy blazing light,
As from the specter of pursuing death;
Intimidated lest thy mighty breath,
Windways, will sweep me into utter night.
For oh, I fear they will be swallowed up--
The loves which are to me of vital worth,
My passion and my pleasure in the earth--
And lost forever in thy magic cup!
I fear, I fear my truly human heart
Will perish on the altar-stone of art!

Some -
thus not all. Not even the majority of all but the minority.
Not counting schools, where one has to,
and the poets themselves,
there might be two people per thousand.
Like -
but one also likes chicken soup with noodles,
one likes compliments and the color blue,
one likes an old scarf,
one likes having the upper hand,
one likes stroking a dog.
Poetry -
but what is poetry.
Many shaky answers
have been given to this question.
But I don't know and don't know and hold on to it
like to a sustaining railing.
Translated by Regina Grol

If music and sweet poetry agree,
As they must needs (the sister and the brother),
Then must the love be great 'twixt thee and me,
Because thou lov'st the one, and I the other.
Dowland to thee is dear, whose heavenly touch
Upon the lute doth ravish human sense;
Spenser to me, whose deep conceit is such
As, passing all conceit, needs no defence.
Thou lov'st to hear the sweet melodious sound
That Ph{oe}bus' lute (the queen of music), makes;
And I in deep delight am chiefly drown'd
Whenas himself to singing he betakes.
One god is god of both (as poets feign),
One knight loves both, and both in thee remai

Globalization.................................

Born in poverty,
Raised in poverty,
Still living in poverty!

All things being equal I'd rather be rich,
However, thing don't always work out,
So I'm resigned to spend my time in poverty,
Working in the dirt and grime.
Why, or why me Lord, I may ask,
Gently proding the almighty for just one task,
I wondered if it would be possible,
Just bless me temporarily the ability to pay my bills,
Then I will be a changed fellow.
I then figured then that money was my problem.
What I didn't realize then,
But I do now,
It isn't a matter of money,
It is a matter of know how.
Now matter how you work,
You may never get ahead,
And then there are people who just work themselves dead.
I looked in the mirror and then decided,
Give me the poverty,
And all I need is the serenity,
To be able to live comfortably,
Now, I live with my means,
Not wanting for things,
And I'm very happy.
You may ask, what did I learn?
I will say, ' Living in poverty is not so bad,
Especially if you have a rich dad! '

Poverty is like an iron cover with several holes in it
Through which pass some invisible rays
They fall upon you and you slowly go dry
When they slyly suck up the sap of your body and brain
You cannot move as the cover works like chain
And cannot think big and pose as brilliant either
Within this dome like structure the space is too less
Deflated you look and feel like a fallen flower
Yet you cannot do anything to bring a relief of rain
The invisible rays act like dykes
To make obstacles after obstacles
In the way to break away the walls of this prison room.

Poverty, hunger and want of resources,
Still do the rounds,
Human hunger
Burning the belly,
The thirst for water
Choking the throat,
Shade to rest
And to recline.

Water simmers on the stove
Grater is turning to pieces, a dry clove
Eyes shimmer with vapour at the door
Outside, enjoying with smells, a beggar
Inside intestine is being cut with dagger
Life is such a mirage with   darkest craze
They are fit, meadow green they graze

It’s the 21st century,
World has advanced in many ways, yet poverty still cries.
Looking at the little boy with tears in eyes,
Desperately searching for love, companion and good clothes
We all know what it clearly indicates and shows,
Poverty.
It haunts me, and part of me wants to make a change and,
the other me wants to forget
but I can surely bet
It’s something one with a good heart wouldn’t do!
If it takes some sacrifice, I’m ready
But is the rest of the world?
I see poverty in a rich man trying to find love,
I see poverty in a well-educated man who lacks modesty.
I see poverty in a literate man who lacks respect for poor.
I see poverty in a selfish man who wants more
The world is still imperfect despite all the advancements,
Because there is,
Poverty.

If I would own nothing, poverty would be my name
If I would acquire wealth, with it a name
Now I pass by my friends of old
They are as strangers, as my feelings are cold
Money has spoiled my heart of flesh
And has relinquished the warmth that was once fresh
Now as I grow old and start to reflect
I realize my mistakes, but can no longer connect
And for this I weep, for when all has been said
What I have been left, is no better than one dead

الفقير                                                                 ما بيشحد و لو بدو يموت                                                 لأن الشحادة عيب                                                        و اللي بيشحد مانو فقير                                                 الشحاد بيمد ايدو متر                                                   ليشحد من هون و هون                                                    و الفقير ابي النفس                                                     و لكن الايام غلبتو                                                     و يمكن اشياء و اشياء خلتو فقير...........                              الفقر ليس عيبا                                                        و انما الشحادة اكبر عيب...                                             في ناس الشحادة عندون مكسب                                              لأننون ماخسرانين شي                                                     اذا مدو ايدون شبر و لامتر                                                في ناس بتبزء بوشون                                                     بيئولوا عما تمطر...                                                   في ناس كتير....                                                        ماشفت فقير عم يشحد                                                     بس شفت ناس بتشحد                                                      و ما بحاجة للمصاري او الفلوس...                                       عيب... انتي اللي عم تشحد                                              زوء على حالك...                                                      بس الفقير فئرو                                                         الو الف سبب و سبب                                                     و الله ما بيترك حدا                                                      كل مين جايلو رزئو...                                                  الفقر مش عيب                                                          الشحادة عيب...                                                       21-08-2014                                                            - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Seeking the healing power of sleep,
I find no respite in my dreams...
Sinking into slumber deep,
It's not so restful as it seems.
Agony's relived time and again,
Magnified by the helplessness
I feel in my dreams and then
I mourn lost love and happiness
I find more relief in time than sleep,
Although I still relive my loss,
I feel the pain less acutely,
Still there, but not as it once was.

The unction cools my brow; the candle shines
and braids a line of sacramental brede;
the priest half-chants the text, and makes the signs,
jogging my mind with the redemptive creed
I learned to lisp in church. A night-shift nurse
shows up with rosary beads and borrowed shawl:
I squeeze my morphine pump; the pain is worse.
A gurney clatters down the empty hall.
I wonder what my blur of meaning meant
to warrant such precautionary flush;
I wonder why the candle's Sunday scent
expands and cloys the sterile room. A hush
folds up all sound; the candle snuffs its flame:
a wisp absconds with my stowaway name.

There cames a time
When you face the tougest of figths
Seaching for a light
I'm lost in the darkest of nights
The wind blows so cold
I'm standing alone
Befor the battles begun
But deep in my soul
The future unfolds
Is bight as the rays of the sun
You got to believe in the power of love
There's a light that falls from the heart
It's a chian reaction
There's nothing that will keep us apart
Stand by my side
There's nothing to hide
Together, we will fight to the end
Take hold of my hand
And you will understand
What means to be friends
You got to believe in the power of love
It's what hearts are mabe of

It is a fact that human beings cannot live without money
People go to work everyday because of money
The more money we have the greater the influence
The more influence we have the greater the control
The more control we have the greater the power
Therefore with lots of money, we acquire power
We classify some people as rich, affluent and prosperous
This is because they have lots and lots of money
By the way - what is this power conferred by money?
In other words - how powerful is money?
Several people agree that money is everything
Lack of money can lead to divorce
Labour unions will go on strike for money
Political campaign is doomed without money
Businesses close down when they have no money
Consultants sell their services for money
Without money we cannot acquire any property
In some countries, access to superior medical services
Is not possible if you do not have lots of money
Also in a number of societies, the caliber of education
You can have depends on how wealthy your parents are
To have money power is to have authority
Oh! Money, what are we going to do without you?
Many believe that money talks everywhere
Whoever has more money makes the loudest noise
The power conferred by money turn few people
To be labeled as the movers and shakers
Does this mean that the poor have less power?
Take a closer look at the society in general
The answer is everywhere and in all places

Written words are powerful
Able to influence and elicit change
More powerful yet are spoken words
Birthed in the mind, delivered through
Tongue, diaphragm and lungs
Working in concert to deliver voice
Intelligent vibrations creating reality
Somewhere an angry someone screams
“I hate you”
Words moving through space unhindered
Past countless stars in countless galaxies
Wreaking endless havoc on God’s Creation
Thinking with one's heart before speaking
Glorifies the positive power of words
Destruction ceases, balance restored
ROTMS

Remember him, whom Passion's power
Severely---deeply---vainly proved:
Remember thou that dangerous hour,
When neither fell, though both were loved.
That yielding breast, that melting eye,
Too much invited to be blessed:
That gentle prayer, that pleading sigh,
The wilder wish reproved, repressed.
Oh! let me feel that all I lost
But saved thee all that Conscience fears;
And blush for every pang it cost
To spare the vain remorse of years.
Yet think of this when many a tongue,
Whose busy accents whisper blame,
Would do the heart that loved thee wrong,
And brand a nearly blighted name.
Think that, whate'er to others, thou
Hast seen each selfish thought subdued:
I bless thy purer soul even now,
Even now, in midnight solitude.
Oh, God! that we had met in time,
Our hearts as fond, thy hand more free;
When thou hadst loved without a crime,
And I been less unworthy thee!
Far may thy days, as heretofore,
From this our gaudy world be past!
And that too bitter moment o'er,
Oh! may such trial be thy last.
This heart, alas! perverted long,
Itself destroyed might there destroy;
To meet thee in the glittering throng,
Would wake Presumption's hope of joy.
Then to the things whose bliss or woe,
Like mine, is wild and worthless all,
That world resign---such scenes forego,
Where those who feel must surely fall.
Thy youth, thy charms, thy tenderness---
Thy soul from long seclusion pure;
From what even here hath passed, may guess
What there thy bosom must endure.
Oh! pardon that imploring tear,
Since not by Virtue shed in vain,
My frenzy drew from eyes so dear;
For me they shall not weep again.
Though long and mournful must it be,
The thought that we no more may meet;
Yet I deserve the stern decree,
And almost deem the sentence sweet.
Still---had I loved thee less---my heart
Had then less sacrificed to thine;
It felt not half so much to part
As if its guilt had made thee mine.

When you look at your life
With your trophy wife
Do you feel fulfilled?
In your comfort zone
Are you bored to the bone?
Has your spirit been killed?
Do you dance in the rain?
Do you feel the pain
That makes you know you're alive?
All things work to a plan
You're a corporate man
For wealth and power you strive.
Your materialist god
Has an iron ruling rod
No room for free thought.
In the Brave New World
Your flag is unfurled
Your status you've bought.
All the things that you've promised
Have you really been honest?
People's lives are your tools.
And when you are wrong
You then sing a new song
I think 'Who are the fools? '
Have you ever been loved?
Is your handshake steel gloved?
Can you really unwind?
Have you drank to excess?
Is your true happiness
In your business like mind?
A blip in the market
Turns your mood very dark, it
Puts your nose out of joint.
Who do you want to be?
All the best things are free
You're missing the point.

The power of ideas are immeasurable
They are the hidden treasures which lies
Deep within each and everyone of us
When we take the time to mind them we will find
That they are more precious than diamonds
Ideas which may seem insignificant
Has tremendous power within them
They are the genesis the initiation the foundation
Of all invention and everything which
Is created by humankind
The power of ideas are immeasurable
They have got the power to move mountains
To overcome any obstacle and to make
The seemingly impossible possible
Ideas are the levers which moves and the axis
On which the world revolves
The power of ideas are immeasurable
The power of ideas...

There is sorrow enough in the natural way
From men and women to fill our day;
And when we are certain of sorrow in store,
Why do we always arrange for more?
Brothers and Sisters, I bid you beware
Of giving your heart to a dog to tear.
Buy a pup and your money will buy
Love unflinching that cannot lie--
Perfect passion and worship fed
By a kick in the ribs or a pat on the head.
Nevertheless it is hardly fair
To risk your heart for a dog to tear.
When the fourteen years which Nature permits
Are closing in asthma, or tumour, or fits,
And the vet's unspoken prescription runs
To lethal chambers or loaded guns,
Then you will find--it's your own affair--
But...you've given your heart for a dog to tear.
When the body that lived at your single will,
With its whimper of welcome, is stilled (how still!);
When the spirit that answered your every mood
Is gone--wherever it goes--for good,
You will discover how much you care,
And will give your heart for the dog to tear.
We've sorrow enough in the natural way,
When it comes to burying Christian clay.
Our loves are not given, but only lent,
At compound interest of cent per cent.
Though it is not always the case, I believe,
That the longer we've kept 'em, the more do we grieve:
For, when debts are payable, right or wrong,
A short-time loan is as bad as a long--
So why in Heaven (before we are there)
Should we give our hearts to a dog to tear?

V-8 engines pushing tin
Up and down to run and win
Circled race yet powers in
Belt and shaft in 2-d spin
Fins of fans are ran to pound
Wind with fin to spin around
Blowing gusts at me I found
2-d borders power bound
Atoms bound to different blight
Breaking in from left to right
Up and down from any sight
Front to back the powers fight
This would seem to beam the way
How power rolls in wild stray
So why do we confine its day
To running in this 2-d way?

A lightning bolt thought
caused in his mind prism
a shift... a May schism..
He was to work against
geneaological and
genetic racism.

I am what I am and your not.
It was said by someone
that once she lets me inside
back to you she won't ever come.
When they say
what I lack in intelligence I make up in size.
When they say
what I lack in education I make up in speed.
Mr.Hampton is closed
my mind he made up long ago.
Across mirror lake
rowing twords me is a man in a covered boat
she goes to Yale.
Don't call the police on me.
I don't have an alibi.
It must of been done by that other someone
it couldn't of been done by me.
Every thirty one days rabbits can.
I don't like what you are I am not.
A monkey can see what you never could feel.
It's people like me that you need.

.
What racist named her a racist?
What bigot underscored her bigotry?
Racism is something held by all,
black or white or mixture.
What is in a word?
Racism?
Or maladjustment...
.

for Abraham Joshua Heschel who proclaims that Racism is man's gravest threat to man.
'those slanted eyes'
in the room silence
like thunder
racism talk
what does white
smell like?
Note:  The phrase, 'slanted eyes, ' is a racist slur that refers to a person of Asian descent, especially of Chinese descent.

Some things never change suppose life is this way
Racism is still rife in the Human World of today
Racism through religion and nationality and culture and race
Is now as was always a human disgrace
All children are innocent and free of sin
Yet many are disadvantaged by colour of skin
Racists in their ways are so very small
Too big for their thinking the beauty of a fair go for all,
Racists have poor sense of self image and low self esteem
Yet many non racist people in the World it does seem
Many people to the higher self remain true
And their dream of a fairer and more enlightened World they pursue
For racism through religion and culture and nationality and race
In the Human World there should not be a place.

the cold emotion of a species
fuming in rage against God
who allowed colour to appear
and multiplied races among nations
in a spectrum of light
where colours merge and dissolve
into one human species
the cold emotion of a species
with clouded eyes
that sees only black and white
declaring war against a species
that thrives in the diversity of its colours
the flowers that shape nations
blossoming in their millions
into one human species
the cold emotion of a species
with no logical explanation
with no religious extrapolation
with no physical justification
with no spiritual destination

Water is searching the path—
Lost its way—
We are dancing, laughing,
In our own way—
Gust of flood snatched happiness,
After waiting long for lost way,
Our thought is not less than water,
Searching the peace way—
Gust of unified thought- be a flood
For terrorism to wash out from earth,
How long  we let them paint earth with blood?

I was once invited to participate,
In a seminar.
To discuss the effects of racism,
Conducted many miles away in an isolated
Remote area
Distanced from where the effects took place.
Near my home.
And I was to be the only Black to appear,
On this prestigious panel.
I declined the offer.
Since I felt it was ridiculous,
To remove myself away from those 'effects'
While in discussion with others,
Who kept perpetuated the acceptance
Of expressed indifferences.
Plus I had attended another affair,
At the same location...
As others listened intently,
While I explained reasons for wearing my hair
In dreads!
And if it had an affect on my identity.
I was then asked to come again,
Next time I was in the area.
As if these 'settings' would be missed,
In my life!
And those who 'sympathized' with my plight,
Would embrace my need to receive their acceptance.
With an understanding of my internal turmoil.
Which, of course, had to depress,
My sensibilities.
Yes!
Only an eyewitness experiencing this,
Would appreciate the sacrifices I make.
Living amongst those who have not been so 'chosen'
To escape from their deprived and substandard conditions.
Inflicted upon them by those less liberal of deed.
I feel so blessed to be honored,
By those 'willing' to share their comfort zones!
However...
There is something about my own environment,
That affords me the freedom to express less pretentiousness.
Although I must say this,
Being a 'victim' of those who are racists...
Has, at times, been to my benefit.
At least I know where they are coming from.
And I have been given opportunities to avoid them!
With a choice to leave them and their preceptions,
'Impressed' upon their limited consciousness.
And I,
Could leave them alone to glorify their intentions.

Righteous habitation! !
Following after righteous laws;
Able to overcome and, to help others!
Without racism.

The April rain, the April rain,
Comes slanting down in fitful showers,
Then from the furrow shoots the grain,
And banks are fledged with nestling flowers;
And in grey shaw and woodland bowers
The cuckoo through the April rain
Calls once again.
The April sun, the April sun,
Glints through the rain in fitful splendour,
And in grey shaw and woodland dun
The little leaves spring forth and tender
Their infant hands, yet weak and slender,
For warmth towards the April sun,
One after one.
And between shower and shine hath birth
The rainbow's evanescent glory;
Heaven's light that breaks on mists of earth!
Frail symbol of our human story,
It flowers through showers where, looming hoary,
The rain-clouds flash with April mirth,
Like Life on earth.

Early summer rain--
houses facing the river,
two of them.
Translated by Robert Hass

A slight rain comes, bathed in dawn light.
I hear it among treetop leaves before mist
Arrives. Soon it sprinkles the soil and,
Windblown, follows clouds away. Deepened
Colors grace thatch homes for a moment.
Flocks and herds of things wild glisten
Faintly. Then the scent of musk opens across
Half a mountain -- and lingers on past noon.

Rain on me, my God
Rain on me.
Make me naked.
Pour your rain
on my body
in my soul
on and in my heart
and in my intellect.
I want to be wet
with You, my God.
Rain on me my God rain on me.

The rain is raining all around,
It falls on field and tree,
It rains on the umbrellas here,
And on the ships at sea.

Rain, rain, rain
on pain's pane which is shuttered quite.
Though I would that my eye could spy
a cloudless starry night!
O well for the pilot wise
who thunderstorm avoids
by climbing through the skies –
who’s well insured by Lloyds!
O well for the submarine
in safety ‘neath the sea,
and O for the sun that has been,
what warmth it brought to me!
Alas for the climate change
which leaves us all at sea,
as the seasons, passing strange,
now topsy-turvy be!
Alas for the water course
when flash floods' water mark
marks records which, of course,
spoil carpet, garden, park!
Rain, rain, rain,
complaint I sing, the sight
brings sorrows flooding, sighs, -
O pity our pretty plight!

I look above
Hot tears kiss my face
The sky is crying
Stars are out of sight
I look at you
Hopelessness falling from your eyes
And pain of losing is tattoed on your soul
You seem so preoccupied,
Not noticing me
I close my eyes
You'll never know what i feel
As we stand here crying
On a night of anguish and rain

Rain on the green grass,
And rain on the tree,
And rain on the house top,
But not on me!

When the rain drops fall on my head
Then I feel the greatness of the nature
When the heat on earth vaporized
Then the clouds above makes the rain
When the rain drops fall on my head
Then I see the farmers are full of cheers
When the rain water roll on the ground
Then all the barren lands turns to green
When the rain drops fall on my head
Then I see the rain water runs down the mountains
When the rain water preserved in the built dam
Then there is no poverty on the land
When the rain drops fall on my head
Then I know the God sends it for us
When we do not go against the nature
Then the rain drops fall on the earth for ever

Leave Behind Drab-Disapproving Crowds
Run In  Rainbow-Mist, A Bright-Prism-Cloud
Where Iridescence Gleams Unbound
Sparkles, Head To Toe … Sky To Ground
Pssst (Listen) … One Place, Where One Is Found:
… In Sunshine and Sprinklers Going ‘Round! …

The rain drops fall
The sun comes out
And all thats left is a beautiful rainbow
People stop and stare
at the unmissable sight
All the colours
In seven neat rows
The clouds blurr
the rainbow does too
As it disappears
It fades and fades
Now it has gone
the noise returns
We'll have to wait
For the next time it rains

There is a Bow in the Sky
It has all the Colors inside
after every Rain that passes by
It's to let us know
One of God's Promises
The Rainbow
The Promise was made, To remind everyone
God would Never Flood the earth again
Like He did way back when
In Noah's Time
Just Look to the Sky, after each Rain
You'll Find, It's very Plain
It's to Show, How Powerful! God Really is! ! !
No one can make a Rainbow! Only God Almighty!
So, You know God is True, To Believe in Him,
Become Born-again, Through His Son, Jesus
To be with Him, In Eternity!
Because He lets you know, with even the show
Of God's Glorious Rainbow! ! !
Patricia Grace Nicholson

I have a Rainbow Garden
For inside of it you’ll see
Every color you would find
What a rainbow ought to be
The blue is for Forget-me-knots
Yellow for Daffodils
Red is for my gladiolas
My flowers are such a thrill
Green creates the many leaves
Of my Rainbow Garden too
I get such peacefulness
I would love to show it to you
My roses, oh I have many
My palette of color shades
I must enjoy them daily
For the time for them will fade
So if you’re feeling weary
And you don’t know what to do
Plant flowers of all colors
And have a Rainbow Garden too!

Hazy and misty sky turns (into)   bright
Sun shines faintly in the rain ere long
Lovely girl’s lovely eyes
Twinkle with amazement
Beholding the colorful rainbow in the sky
The swaying boughs and woods get in the way
Of the view of the pretty bow in the sky
Wishes the lovely sevenfold be watched
Amply out in near vicinity
Wishes the rain be suspended soon, she prays
Slumbers the rain as sudden
As her prayers are answered by her Lord
By leaps and bounds the little girl nips out
Of her confines joyfully to see her rainbow
But, Stands she still! Looking up the sky
And numb with shock! Give herself
Up to a feeling of utter despair
And she realizes unto
Her pretty rainbow is no more there and
It faded away with the rain.
May 28-2009 - Hawiyah - Saudi Arabia

The stillness
After the storm
Comes into view
Multicolored promise
Loved-filled expressions
Of varied sentiments
Yet quite focus
Intimate panorama
Though seldom come
This love I feel
Like the rainbow
I dedicate this to you
You may not appreciate
the beauty of the colors
Of my words
Less this sincere heart
Still I will prevail
To stand proud
Till the time you realize
The love sign in the rainbow
I may not be perfect
As you see me covered
By the superficial hues
But it's where I exist
For as long as I breath
Rainbow of love stays
Come what may
It will be forever

Josie it´s been a long hard day
Down the road to where it´s at
I must have lost my way
When I got there they said I was too late
Now you´re the only one can get me straight
So won´t you sing me a rainbow Josie
Roll me a song
Just tonight make it right
Cause it´s been wrong for oh so long
There´s lots of shades of darkness, Josie
Deep inside a man
So sing me a rainbow if you can
The train I went to meet
Had come and gone
Seems like I spend all my time
Gettin´ off and gettin´ on
I sold my mind
And gave my dreams away
And tomorrow I´ll start lookin´
´Round for yesterday
But til then
Sing me a rainbow Josie
Roll me a song
Just tonight make it right
Cause it´s been wrong for oh so long
There´s lots of kinds of hunger Josie
You don´t understand
So sing me a rainbow if you can
If you can, If you can
Sing me a rainbow if you can.

Today I saw a rainbow
with bright colors in the sky.
I couldn’t see its start or end,
just its middle, way up high.
Mom said that it’s God’s promise,
that the world will still go on,
and He always will forgive us
though sometimes we do wrong.
I guess I understand it
and I’m glad He thinks that way.
I just wish He’d paint His rainbows
up there every single day.
Gee, Great Grampa was an artist.
We have his paintings everywhere.
He died a long, long time ago.
Is he helping God up there?
That rainbow sure was pretty
and they mostly look the same,
but Great Grampa should tell God...
He should always sign His name.

let me fly....
Why should I have broken wings? ! ! ! !
My dreams appear there...
in the sky...
near the rainbow where birds sing...! ! !
let me fly...
dont stab, Now, the little girl inside me
with no mercy...
I dont wanna die...
let me fly, smile
help me to tear
that dark file...
and let me fly
high...
so so high...
till I reach that rainbow
and then die....

74
A Lady red—amid the Hill
Her annual secret keeps!
A Lady white, within the Field
In placid Lily sleeps!
The tidy Breezes, with their Brooms—
Sweep vale—and hill—and tree!
Prithee, My pretty Housewives!
Who may expected be?
The Neighbors do not yet suspect!
The Woods exchange a smile!
Orchard, and Buttercup, and Bird—
In such a little while!
And yet, how still the Landscape stands!
How nonchalant the Hedge!
As if the "Resurrection"
Were nothing very strange!

You know Ken Copeland, Ben Hinn, and Joyce Meyer,
Paula White, Eddie Long, and Creflo Dollar,
But do you recall the most tele-evangelist of all,
Jim Bakker the house hold evangelist,
Had a very shinny nose,
And if you ever saw it,
When he was crying,
You would ever say it glows.
All of the evangelists
Used to laugh and call him names,
They never let poor Bakker
Join in tax evasion games.
Ten one foggy audit day
Oral Roberts came to say,
Peter get your cooked books out tonight,
Join Bakker in the tax fraud fight. (see Observation Jimmy the Geek)
Then all the evangelists loved him,
And they shouted with glee,
Jimmy and Tammy Bakker,
You'll go down in history.
(11-6-2007)

She stood at the alter
A gown of white she did wear
With a bouquet of red roses
And blue ribbons in her hair
She waited for someone
Who was never to come
Tears leaked from her eyes
Across her cheeks did run
The bouquet of red roses
For her wedding day
Have all now faded
As time slipped away
Those faded red roses
She still holds in her hand
Years have come and gone
Waiting for this man
You’ll still find her
With tears in her eyes
As the hopes he’ll still come
Fade like the roses
Washed too much by the sun
Today she still waits all alone
Those faded red roses in her hand
Is now all that she owns

MO CAILIN ALAINN RUA
(My Beautiful Red Haired Girl)
Your hair
taken by the wind
blown
into flame
a fiery red
Medussa
standing on
the edge
of this
mountain
a world
turned to stone
as if your gaze
froze this landscape
into place.
I too
still as stone
your hair
flaring up into the air
fiery snakes
like thoughts
bursting out of your mind
fighting the sunset
that only
a small box camera
captures
& contains
this photo
cutting off your head
from the rest of you
mythical
untouchable
mo cailin alainn rua
mo cailin alainn rua.
***
RED RIVER
Your hair
trickles down your back
in curls...curls
curl after curl
rivers of ringlets
cascading down your spine.
I want to drown
in the waters of your hair.
You wear a waterfall
over each shoulder
The fiery flames
of your tresses
crashing over thigh & hip & buttock!
My hands
like fishes
swimming all over
your body
splashed with the beauty
of your hair
touching & touching
the sheer
nakedness
of
you.
***** **
WEARING HER HAIR
You stand
before me
dressed only
in the dress
that your hair
weaves about you
naked
yet
not
you wear
your hair
as a magical
garment
from a half remembered half forgotten fairytale.
You undress
throwing your hair over each shoulder
I come to you as if a spell
commanded me to & you
wrap me
in your hair.
Both  our
nakedness
wearing your hair
sheltered here
lost amongst
kisses.
***
A fellow poet(well, it wasn't a fella)       divulged that she too was red of the hair(this had been unknown to me)       and so this homage to redheads came into being just on this wisp of information...the memories and images flood back into being.

THE old brown thorn-trees break in two high over Cummen Strand,
Under a bitter black wind that blows from the left hand;
Our courage breaks like an old tree in a black wind and dies,
But we have hidden in our hearts the flame out of the eyes
Of Cathleen, the daughter of Houlihan.
The wind has bundled up the clouds high over Knock- narea,
And thrown the thunder on the stones for all that Maeve can say.
Angers that are like noisy clouds have set our hearts abeat;
But we have all bent low and low and kissed the quiet feet
Of Cathleen, the daughter of Houlihan.
The yellow pool has overflowed high up on Clooth-na-Bare,
For the wet winds are blowing out of the clinging air;
Like heavy flooded waters our bodies and our blood;
But purer than a tall candle before the Holy Rood
Is Cathleen, the daughter of Houlihan.

It isn’t hard to image
What exactly she’s doing there
A dingy motel with a
Flashing ‘vacancy’ sign
After all,
Some women will say
he looks good in
leather chaps
doesn’t he?
But she’s a nice girl
And a good wife
Mother of two
President of the PTA
She wonders what’s off
The beaten path
And what’s this guy
with a Harley and a grin
got that says:
‘you want this’?
Sometimes claws are better
Than fleshy man-hands
And sometimes little girls
Aren’t little at all
When he comes riding
Back into town
Looking for the girl
With that red hood
A bored housewife
Decides to play the part
He’s all wolf
And he’s all man
Being married to a hunter
She’s never felt like this
And, boy, she’ll say
Sometime later
Did that leather
Ever feel good
Rubbing hard against
Her skin
When she and her
Kids disappeared with
No Harley or grin near
The wolf will eat well
My, my, my
The old ladies at
The supermarket cluck
Little Red Riding Hood’s
A whore
But they forgot
She isn’t little anymore

Across the Eastern sky has glowed
The flicker of a blood-red dawn,
Once more the clarion cock has crowed,
Once more the sword of Christ is drawn.
A million burning rooftrees light
The world-wide path of Israel's flight.
Where is the Hebrew's fatherland?
The folk of Christ is sore bestead;
The Son of Man is bruised and banned,
Nor finds whereon to lay his head.
His cup is gall, his meat is tears,
His passion lasts a thousand years.
Each crime that wakes in man the beast,
Is visited upon his kind.
The lust of mobs, the greed of priest,
The tyranny of kings, combined
To root his seed from earth again,
His record is one cry of pain.
When the long roll of Christian guilt
Against his sires and kin is known,
The flood of tears, the life-blood spilt,
The agony of ages shown,
What oceans can the stain remove,
From Christian law and Christian love?
Nay, close the book; not now, not here,
The hideous tale of sin narrate,
Reëchoing in the martyr's ear,
Even he might nurse revengeful hate,
Even he might turn in wrath sublime,
With blood for blood and crime for crime.
Coward? Not he, who faces death,
Who singly against worlds has fought,
For what? A name he may not breathe,
For liberty of prayer and thought.
The angry sword he will not whet,
His nobler task is -- to forget.

The great thing
is not having
a mind. Feelings:
oh, I have those; they
govern me. I have
a lord in heaven
called the sun, and open
for him, showing him
the fire of my own heart, fire
like his presence.
What could such glory be
if not a heart? Oh my brothers and sisters,
were you like me once, long ago,
before you were human? Did you
permit yourselves
to open once, who would never
open again? Because in truth
I am speaking now
the way you do. I speak
because I am shattered.

(For Alden March)
With drooping sail and pennant
That never a wind may reach,
They float in sunless waters
Beside a sunless beach.
Their mighty masts and funnels
Are white as driven snow,
And with a pallid radiance
Their ghostly bulwarks glow.
Here is a Spanish galleon
That once with gold was gay,
Here is a Roman trireme
Whose hues outshone the day.
But Tyrian dyes have faded,
And prows that once were bright
With rainbow stains wear only
Death's livid, dreadful white.
White as the ice that clove her
That unforgotten day,
Among her pallid sisters
The grim Titanic lay.
And through the leagues above her
She looked aghast, and said:
"What is this living ship that comes
Where every ship is dead?"
The ghostly vessels trembled
From ruined stern to prow;
What was this thing of terror
That broke their vigil now?
Down through the startled ocean
A mighty vessel came,
Not white, as all dead ships must be,
But red, like living flame!
The pale green waves about her
Were swiftly, strangely dyed,
By the great scarlet stream that flowed
From out her wounded side.
And all her decks were scarlet
And all her shattered crew.
She sank among the white ghost ships
And stained them through and through.
The grim Titanic greeted her
"And who art thou?" she said;
"Why dost thou join our ghostly fleet
Arrayed in living red?
We are the ships of sorrow
Who spend the weary night,
Until the dawn of Judgment Day,
Obscure and still and white."
"Nay," said the scarlet visitor,
"Though I sink through the sea,
A ruined thing that was a ship,
I sink not as did ye.
For ye met with your destiny
By storm or rock or fight,
So through the lagging centuries
Ye wear your robes of white.
"But never crashing iceberg
Nor honest shot of foe,
Nor hidden reef has sent me
The way that I must go.
My wound that stains the waters,
My blood that is like flame,
Bear witness to a loathly deed,
A deed without a name.
"I went not forth to battle,
I carried friendly men,
The children played about my decks,
The women sang -- and then --
And then -- the sun blushed scarlet
And Heaven hid its face,
The world that God created
Became a shameful place!
"My wrong cries out for vengeance,
The blow that sent me here
Was aimed in Hell.  My dying scream
Has reached Jehovah's ear.
Not all the seven oceans
Shall wash away that stain;
Upon a brow that wears a crown
I am the brand of Cain."
When God's great voice assembles
The fleet on Judgment Day,
The ghosts of ruined ships will rise
In sea and strait and bay.
Though they have lain for ages
Beneath the changeless flood,
They shall be white as silver,
But one -- shall be like blood.

As parents remember that you are the only original guide,
Mom and dad set the mold or pattern for children’s lives,
Proverbs 22: 6, “train up a child in the way he should go, ”
Early instruction signifies what direction the wind will blow.
Grab a Webster’s dictionary, looking up the word esteem,
Put the words high then low before, now what does it mean?
If it’s the latter, you’re seeking an excuse to quit and do less,
Or are you that someone who looks forward to the test?
Ecclesiastes 7: 1, a 'good name' sets the standard boundary,
I understand this to mean it is giving rules a basic legitimacy,
Sure is tough being a parent harder than I ever thought it’d be,
Only now do I understand what parents went through with me.
Hindsight is the best sight; “If I could do it all over again” is true,
However, since that is just impossible start now and begin anew,
All children will grow older and at eighteen most will know it all,
Feeling no need whatsoever to answer or obey their parent’s call.
If some didn’t at fifteen or earlier, then just what are we to do?
Constantly remind them God all things begin and end with You,
Not by what we tell them since action speaks louder than words,
Forget passively as a noun, but radical instruction like the verb.
Hey parents! At home you cuss, you smoke, you drink,
When your kids grow-up they will, what do you think?
However, everyday they see you read the bible & pray,
Your children’s children will respond in the same way.
Does it always turn out like this, how about the majority?
Those whom do not pick up these habits are a minority,
Till they leave home most will do what whatever’s seen,
Are you loving, kind, compassionate or down right mean?
As we diligently tutor our off spring an example will be set,
Do you trample over others? Taking all that you can get?
Punishment from God isn’t always, swift as it should be,
Remember mom and dad won’t have the luxury of eternity.
Many children are afflicted from the very first breath taken in time,
Thanks to parents who have nothing but themselves on their mind,
Starvation, sickness, beatings, crying for various reasons day & night,
Because those responsible for birth had to be a couple of butt-wipes.

Do you remember once, in Paris of glad faces,
The night we wandered off under the third moon's rays
And, leaving far behind bright streets and busy places,
Stood where the Seine flowed down between its quiet quais?
The city's voice was hushed; the placid, lustrous waters
Mirrored the walls across where orange windows burned.
Out of the starry south provoking rumors brought us
Far promise of the spring already northward turned.
And breast drew near to breast, and round its soft desire
My arm uncertain stole and clung there unrepelled.
I thought that nevermore my heart would hover nigher
To the last flower of bliss that Nature's garden held.
There, in your beauty's sweet abandonment to pleasure,
The mute, half-open lips and tender, wondering eyes,
I saw embodied first smile back on me the treasure
Long sought across the seas and back of summer skies.
Dear face, when courted Death shall claim my limbs and find them
Laid in some desert place, alone or where the tides
Of war's tumultuous waves on the wet sands behind them
Leave rifts of gasping life when their red flood subsides,
Out of the past's remote delirious abysses
Shine forth once more as then you shone, -- beloved head,
Laid back in ecstasy between our blinding kisses,
Transfigured with the bliss of being so coveted.
And my sick arms will part, and though hot fever sear it,
My mouth will curve again with the old, tender flame.
And darkness will come down, still finding in my spirit
The dream of your brief love, and on my lips your name.
II
You loved me on that moonlit night long since.
You were my queen and I the charming prince
Elected from a world of mortal men.
You loved me once. . . . What pity was it, then,
You loved not Love. . . . Deep in the emerald west,
Like a returning caravel caressed
By breezes that load all the ambient airs
With clinging fragrance of the bales it bears
From harbors where the caravans come down,
I see over the roof-tops of the town
The new moon back again, but shall not see
The joy that once it had in store for me,
Nor know again the voice upon the stair,
The little studio in the candle-glare,
And all that makes in word and touch and glance
The bliss of the first nights of a romance
When will to love and be beloved casts out
The want to question or the will to doubt.
You loved me once. . . . Under the western seas
The pale moon settles and the Pleiades.
The firelight sinks; outside the night-winds moan --
The hour advances, and I sleep alone.
III
Farewell, dear heart, enough of vain despairing!
If I have erred I plead but one excuse --
The jewel were a lesser joy in wearing
That cost a lesser agony to lose.
I had not bid for beautifuller hours
Had I not found the door so near unsealed,
Nor hoped, had you not filled my arms with flowers,
For that one flower that bloomed too far afield.
If I have wept, it was because, forsaken,
I felt perhaps more poignantly than some
The blank eternity from which we waken
And all the blank eternity to come.
And I betrayed how sweet a thing and tender
(In the regret with which my lip was curled)
Seemed in its tragic, momentary splendor
My transit through the beauty of the world.

I remember, I remember
the house where I was born
before foreclosure took away
the homestead I had sworn
in good faith, all attest 'tis true,
to leave grandchildren three: -
times change, leave little rest, I rue
that difference to me!
It seems so very long ago
the liberating Yanks
found welcome everywhere they'd go -
though some were pita swanks,
but since the Shah announced 'I ran'
our bearings all at sea
became - time reeled again would ban
all difference for me!
I remember, I remember
the sun porch, now in pawn,
proud flag a flying red, white, blue,
which now hangs so forlorn
Sun, moon spun round each priceless day,
or so I seemed to see,
four bucks a gallon gas I pay -
what difference to me!
My mind thought then nostalgic ease
eternally could last,
all my desires, priorities
seemed sated very fast,
The fever on my brow shoots higher
now Sheiks of Araby,
up ante for crude imports, tire -
what difference to me!
I remember, I remember
before Alaskan oil
had spilled upon once pristine shore,
polluting fauna, soil.
With climate change I'm feeling sore,
note each commodity
continues rising more and more -
what difference to me!
Back then I'd travel aimlessly,
cared not I ran Iraq,
from dawn till dark, from sea to sea
could, rising with the lark,
ignore the cost of gasoline
in land of liberty:
my budget now seems far more lean,
what difference to me!
I remember, I remember
before FEMA's disgrace,
I never thought dark terrorists
I might meet face to face,
Days fifty two times seven cheap,
no need to spare expense,
I'm farther now from Heaven's keep:
Oh boy!  What difference!
(c)  Jonathan Robin - Parody written 4 June 2008
Variations on a theme - I remember Thomas Hood - Enjoy!
Past and Present
I remember, I remember
The house where I was born,
The little window where the sun
Came peeping in at morn;
He never came a wink too soon
Nor bought too long a day;
But now, I often wish the night
Had borne my breath away.
I remember, I remember
The roses, red and white,
The violets, and the lily-cups-
Those flowers made of light!
The lilacs where the robin built,
And where my brother set
The laburnum on his birthday, -
The tree is living yet!
I remember, I remember
Where I was used to swing,
And throught the air must rush as fresh
To swallows on the wing;
My spirit flew in feathers then
That is so heavy now,
And summer pools could hardly cool
The fever on my brow.
I remember, I remember
The fir frees dark and high;
I used to think their slender tops
Were close against the sky:
It was a childish ignorance,
But now 'tis little joy
To know I'm farther off from Heaven
Than when I was a boy.
Thomas Hood 1799_1845
HOOD Thomas 1799_1845 hood1_0007_hood1_0000  PXX_JZX Past and Present_I remember, I remember
I Remember
I remember, I remember
The house where I was born;
The rent was thirty-two a month,
Which made my father mourn.
He said he could remember when
His father paid the rent;
And when a man's expenses did
Not take his every cent.
I remember, I remember-
My mother telling my cousin
That eggs had gone to twenty-six
Or seven cents a dozen;
And how she told my father that
She didn't like to speak
Of things like that, but Bridget now
Demanded four a week.
I remember, I remember-
And with a mirthless laugh-
My weekly board at college took
A jump to three and a half.
I bought an eighteen-dollar suit,
And father told me, 'Sonny,
I'll pay the bill this time, but, Oh,
I am not made out of money! '
I remember, I remember,
When I was young and brave
And I declared, 'Well, Birdie, we
Shall now begin to save.'
It was a childish ignorance,
But now 'tis little joy
To know I'm farther off from wealth
Than when I was a boy.
Franklin Pierce ADAMS 1881_1960 Parody Thomas HOOD 1799_1845  -  I Remember
I Remember
I remember, I remember,
When I discovered porn.
The little book that gave a boy -
Or so I heard – the horn:
It never meant a wank to me,
Nor did it drive me mad.
But in a funny kind of way
I often wish it had.
I remember, I remember,
The tweeny walking by,
I used to think her stocking-tops
Were close against her thigh:
It was a childish innocence.
But now ‘tis little joy
To know my thoughts are just as pure
As when I was a boy.
Naomi MARKS
Parody Thomas HOOD 1799_1845  I Remember – Past and Present
I Remember
I remember, I remember,
The house where I was wed,
And the little room from which, that night,
My smiling bride was led;
She didn’t come a wink too soon,
Nor make too long a stay;
But now I often wish her folks
Had kept the girl away!
I remember, I remember,
Her dresses, red and white,
Her bonnets and her caps and cloaks, -
The cost an awful sight!
The “corner lot” on which I built,
And where my brother met
At first my wife, one washing-day, -
That man is single yet!
I remember, I remember,
Where I was used to court,
And thought that all of married life*
Was just such pleasant sport:
My spirit flew in feathers then,
No care was on my brow;
I scarce could wait to shut the gate, -
I’m not so anxious now!
I remember, I remember,
My dear one’s smile and sigh;
I used to think her tender heart
Was close against the sky;
It was a childish ignorance,
But now it soothes me not
To know I’m farther off from heaven
Then when she wasn’t got!
Phoebe CARY
Parody Thomas HOOD 1799_1845  I Remember – Past and Present
I Remember
I remember, I remember,
(I wish I’d ne’er been born)
The little widow and her son
Came creeping in forlorn;
She never gave a wink too soon
Till he had gone to play;
But now, I oft regret that larks
Had borne that boy away.
I remember, I remember
The presents dear and cheap,
The letters and the valentines –
And othr things a heap!
The cottage which the masons built,
And where her youngster set
The pin pin upon the big arm chair –
That boy is living yet!
I remember, I remember
Her neck Itried to wring,
And saw the boy run out Pall Mall
Two peelers quick to bring;
My hair it flew in masses then,
I got a heavy blow,
The cold dark cell could hardly cool
The swelling on my brow.
I remember, I remember
A fair man, broad and hig;
I used to think his slender hair
Did match his clothes and tie;
It showed a childish ignorance,
But now ‘tis little joy
To know she ran away with him,
And left that awful boy.
Archibald STODART-WALKER 1869_1934
Parody Thomas HOOD 1799_1845  I Remember – Past and Present
“I remember, I remember,
The day that I was born,
When first I saw this breathing world,
All naked and forlorn,
They wrapped me in a linen cloth,
And then in one of frieze;
And tho’ I could not speak just then,
I still contrived to sneeze.”
“I remember, I remember,
Old ladies came from far;
Some said I was like mother dear,
But others thought like Pa;
Yet all agreed I had a head,
And most expressive eyes;
The latter were about as large
As plums in Christmas pies.”
Notes and Queries UNEDA pseudonym Philadelphia 10 June 1871
Parody Thomas HOOD 1799_1845  I Remember – Past and Present
I remember, I remember,
The cell, which now I scorn,
The little window where no sun
Could cheer the dreary morn.
Policeman X, no wink too son,
Brought in my musty fare,
And, growling as he went away,
Locked me in safely there!
I remember, I remember,
We’d been out late at night,
Twain herons who, o’er sundry cups,
Wound up by “getting tight; ”
And then although no blood was spilt,
That fiend in blue we met;
“Run in” upon my natal day –
Oh, would I could forget.
I remember, I remember,
No sofa would he bring,
He said the air seem’d rather fresh
For night birds on the wing!
The spirits needed feathers then,
And rest my fevered brow;
He only said, “The place is cool, ”
And, “Mind! don’t make a row! ”
Author Unknown - The Figaro  7 March 1874
Parody Thomas HOOD 1799_1845  I Remember – Past and Present
Lucy
She dwelt among the untrodden ways
Beside the springs of Dove
A maid whom there were none to praise
And very few to love.
A violet by a mossy stone
Half-hidden from the eye;
Fair as a star when only one
Is shining in the sky.
She lived unknown, and few could know
When Lucy ceased to be;
But she is in her grave, and, oh,
The difference to me!
William WORDSWORTH 1770_1850
see also numerous parodies on the above including
Lucy's Cousin
He lived amidst th’untrodden ways
To Rydal lake that lead;
A bard whom there were none to praise,
And very few to read.
Behind a cloud his mystic sense,
Deep hidden, who can spy?
Bright as the night when not a star
Is shining in the sky.
Unread his works – his “Milk White Doe”
With dust is dark and dim;
It’s still in Longman’s shop, and oh!
The difference to him!
Hartley COLERIDGE 1796_1849
Parody William WORDSWORTH - Lucy
A Song of the Cambridge Streets
We dwelt where youthful brains grow ripe,
A town not drain’d too well,
With here and there a choky pipe,
And here and there a smell.
They tore up streets, they dug below,
They made a deal of fuss,
Now sick’ning manholes reek, and oh!
The difference to us!
Walter William SKEAT – 1835_1912
Parody William Wordsworth Lucy and Alfred Tennyson The Brook
The Amateur Botanist
A primrose by a river's brim
‘Primula vulgaris’ was to him,
And it was nothing more;
A pansy, delicately reared,
‘Viola tricolor’ appeared
In true botanic lore.
That which a pink the layman deems
‘Dianthus caryophyllus’ seems
To any flower-fan; or
A sunflower, in that talk of his,
‘Annuus helianthus’ is,
And it is nothing more.
Toboganning on Parnassus
Franklin Pierce ADAMS Parody William WORDSWORTH Lucy
_____________

I remember many things
about those days and you.
I remember staring into brown eyes
as though I couldn't get enough of them,
then burning the love I saw there
into a memory to keep for all time.
I remember how with you,
total silence could be so comfortable,
and how it was the only time
in my life I ever felt that to be so.
I remember how safe I felt with you.
Even the way you said my name
was different from how others said it
and I remember feeling
that even my name
was safe in your mouth.
I remember how sometimes
we made love all night
and stayed in bed all day,
then skinny dipping
to cool down
all the secret places
our lovemaking heated up.
I remember lying in your arms
in the afterglow and thinking
how profound it was,
the way the brain hitched a ride
when the body did all the work.
You were my miracle
in our own short season,
and it makes me remember
the last time I saw you
because I will never forget
the pain of my loss.

Let Erin remember the days of old,
Ere her faithless sons betray'd her;
When Malachi wore the collar of gold,
Which he won from her proud invader,
When her kings, with standard of green unfurl'd,
Led the Red-Branch Knights to danger!
Ere the emerald gem of the western world
Was set in the crown of a stranger.
On Lough Neagh's bank as the fisherman strays,
When the clear cold eve's declining,
He sees the round towers of other days
In the wave beneath him shining:
Thus shall memory often, in dreams sublime,
Catch a glimpse of the days that are over;
Thus, sighing, look through the waves of time,
For the long-faded glories they cover.

remeber me every day, when a sun rise..
when breeze up from our place to yours....
when you saw any one like me...
when every time you lights a cigarette...
i rememberd you in a night closed to be dawn..
and don`t forget me...
don`t forget me...
at when a breeze stoped...
and when you finished your cigarette...
i`m in loving with you, and you have to...
i`m in remembering you, so don`t forgot me....
iam loving you as became a mania...
so.. you have to love me, a love with out mania..
because i don`t like a craziness..
my love become more to you, when.....
when i light a cigarette from yours..
when i remeberd your friend, who let us knew each others..
and because of her i write, what i wrote...
and when i saw any girl like your prettiness...
so please..
i loved you so, and you have to...
and rememberd you, don`t forget....

Remember where you came from.
Remember where you have been.
Remember whom you have encountered.
Remember whom you have known,
Remember joyous moments.
Remember sorrow too.
Remember all the lessons.
Remember the lessons you forgot.
Remember your Father.
Remember your Mentor.
Remember Mother Earth.
Remember the universe.
Remember to remember.
Remember gratitude.
Remember to be humble.
Remember your heart.
Remember always to love.
(Created 09-23-05@4: 53PM, Completed 11-27-06@6: 41PM)

Remember when
the days seemed so long
Not a care in the world
and all was a song
Sit on the front porch
and smell the fresh air
Summertime pleasures
without not a care
I long for those days
to came back again
Sharing our dreams
with one special friend

Lieutenant De Long, commanding the Jeannette Artic
Expedition, having seen his vessel crushed by the ice,
undertook a perilous journey through the ice and snow
toward the coast of Siberia. With a part of his command
he finally reached the wilderness near the mouth of the
River Lena. Disabled by sickness, hunger and cold, the
little band was compelled to halt, while two of their
number went forward. When the pathetic parting was over,
and after the two seaman had begun their battle with the
snowdrifts, they heard a call, and on turning, recognized
the voice of one of their officers feebly shouting: "When
you get to New York, remember me!" From that group of
brave men, these were the last words that ever reached
human ears.
Starving beside the frozen Lena!
Perishing in a snow blockade!
From a lone group of shipwrecked seamen
Two are sent forth to seek for aid.
'Tis a sad, a solemn parting;
Life or death! who can foresee?
Hark! on the wind floats this last message:
"When you get home, remember me!"
Gallant and brave! together clinging,
True to the last! with but this plea;
Still in our ears its words are ringing,
"When you get home, remember me!"
Ready to sink, yet persevering,
Southward and helpward toil the twain;
Close in the rear an Artic winter
Binding the land with icy chain.
Weary wait the suff'ring comrades;
Help they ask on bended knee;
But to their friends come these words only:
"When you get home, remember me!"
Succor at last! the twain find helpers;
Shrieks the fierce gale, "Too late! too late!"
Valiant De Long and brave companions,
Manfully, calmly meet their fate.
One by one, they lie down dying;
All obey that stern decree---
Last on their lips this plaintive whisper:
"When you get home, remember me!"
Starving beside the frozen Lena!
Perishing in a snow blockade!
Had we but known their need, what thousands
Would have rejoiced to render aid!
There was want, while here abundance;
Naught had they, while plenty we.
Shall we not heed their last entreaty:
"When you get home, remember me!"

Be cautious when treating people with respect,
Especially those that are not accustomed to it.
They begin to expect,
Anything they do to be acceptable.
Being direct and factual...
When and if pointing out a shown irresponsibility,
Upsets their track record of being negligent.
And your outspoken candor,
Can and will offend them to no end.
You will be the first one they accuse,
Of abusing their insecurities...
Others ignore,
But choose to talk about this and them...
Behind their backs.
And whether this is known or not...
Those actions of others are preferred,
To keep their egos intact!
And you may be the first to express...
You will have none of that!
Never stop respecting,
But choose not to be a welcome mat!
And everyone knows what they are used for!

If You respect yourself respect to others you'll show
Never judge a person that you do not know
But your political leaders feel free to praise or to criticize
Since their decisions impact on you that you must realize
If you so wish you can heed or ignore my advice
Those with only personal power leave to their own device
Since any personal decisions they make do not impact on you
As you'd like them to treat you likewise to them do
Anyone if they so choose with their words can be unkind
And if you look for flaws in others then flaws you will find
Those kind with their words to their higher selves true
We receive from life what is only our due
Those into trash talking I for one don't condone
Let the one without sin come and cast the first stone.

Love gives comfort; respect gives courage.
Love sedates one and respect inspires.
Love lulls you and respect awakes you.
You can’t demand love but command respect.
Love with respect or respect with love
Is what people, be high or low, expect
From those outside their family circle.
There only exist human relations.

We have forgotten traditional values
That was owed and very much due
He teachers were considered as founding stone
For the future of students alone
Even though the basic knowledge was from home
The teachers were always welcome
And adored their position
It was respectable transition
It may be with lack of facility
That student might have faced in its utility
The teachers have gone all out
To help in every aspect and talked about
The teachers were always held
In high esteem but were less paid
Still they have performed their duties
To the help and welfare of societies
We naturally held high regard
And look forward
For heir guidance and advice
It is always full of promises

Respect Is Something That You And Me Ought To Have
Respect Is Something That You And Me Ought To Show
Respect Is Something That You And Me Ought To Give
Respect Is Something That You And Me Ought To Learn
Respect Is Something That You And Me Ought To Share
Respect Is Something That You And Me Ought To Know

All creatures deep inside are quite aware
that it's the heart and, with it, its sweet beat
only its never-ending flutter lets us share
a bit of time upon this planet, where we meet
so many creatures and, above all real humans
who all do strive to stay as long as they're allowed
they fiddle with their health and look at cardiac lumens
and hope the gods remember what the sheep have vowed.
There is a little thing that's often mentioned
it does concern our interpersonal communication
no matter, highly motivated or so well-intentioned
it's what may make us  give enough consideration
to one small word, and that is, vaguely, called respect.
Respect for the law
and for Ma and Pa,
for the crooked Police
for Canadian geese,
for the Judges and Preachers
and for needlework teachers
for the butchers and bakers
and the skilled coffinmakers,
for the nurses and bitches
and burglars and snitches
for all druggies and whores
and the owners of stores
thus, the list could continue
to a different venue
but suffice it to say
that respect is not play
and it can't be demanded
or delivered and handed
against payment of gold
no, respect can't be sold.
If your heart can take care
of necessities, bare
you can use all your time
to prepare and to climb
'til you reach Peak Respect
where you'll sit and reflect
and look inside your mind
where you possibly find
in the tangle of nerve
the respect you deserve.

Address with respect those at par
Even when they’re younger to you.
Address with respect those below
When they are elder to you.
Their regard for you will go up.
16.01.2012

يعرف الاحترام                                  نفسه بنفسه لنفسه في اي وقت                    و لكن                                        احترام النفس هي عالم آخر للاحترام                لأنه يقصد به                                  ان شخصا ما                                   يحترم نفسه و بعمل ذلك                          فهو يحترم الآخرين بشكل تام...                  بدون هذا الذي يدعى ' احترام الذات'            عندئذ                                        ستنقلب الحياة كلها رأسا على عقب...           اننا نحب ان نحترم                               و نحب ان نحترم في اي وقت                         و يكمل 'احترام الذات'                         الاحترام ذاته                                  حتى اللحظة الاخيرة...                          لامعنى للحياة                                  بدون ذلك الاحترام او                           ذلك ' الاحترام ذاته'                           في اي وقت...                                 _____________________________________________

What to expect?
Dirty dust under my feet.
Am I a cheat?
I am holding your hands
I am touching your forehead
I am in front of your eyes
I am a flower in the garland You wear.
Tell me, tell me, who am I
And You are in equanimity
With new clothes every moment
Taking me upwards with and without my consent.
All these are here not for the sake of show
I realized and you called me loudly
I want to sacrifice myself for You
And You are declaring my victory at the end.
What to do with that victory
That I do not know and I am sure
I know not the beginning and the end
And in the middle I am in my life threefold.

Shall we gather at the river,
Where bright angel feet have trod,
With its crystal tide for ever flowing
by the throne of God?
Gather at the river!
Yes, we'll gather at the river,
The beautiful, the beautiful river,
Yes well gather at the river
that flows by the throne of God.
Shall we gather? Shall we gather at the river?

This is one of my wirdest dreams
Walking by the river thinking things out,
I see a girl crying and one with a pout.
As I draw closer they both disapear
And mysteriously I feel tears
I wonder what can this mean
The next day I dream the same
Only this time they were the ones that came
But this time the one that was crying says 'why do you treat him so bad? '
Then I understood-the child in me wanted me to treat life the way it should and to enjoy it creatively!

I dream of a heaven overlooking the river Nile
The Pyramids at a distance
Fishermen in rickety feluccas
A blazing September sunset
And you sitting next to me
Your face touched with a smile
Questions and confessions
Musings and impressions
Self-expression without permission
Soul searching free of inhibition
First experiences with no apprehension
Bliss and content beyond comprehension
Time frozen as emotions flow
A sense of security with an afterglow
Feelings soaring in crescendo
Tender words and sweet innuendo
Stolen moments to forever cherish
Shared memories that will never perish

Smooth it glides upon its travel,
Here a wimple, there a gleam--
O the clean gravel!
O the smooth stream!
Sailing blossoms, silver fishes,
Pave pools as clear as air--
How a child wishes
To live down there!
We can see our colored faces
Floating on the shaken pool
Down in cool places,
Dim and very cool;
Till a wind or water wrinkle,
Dipping marten, plumping trout,
Spreads in a twinkle
And blots all out.
See the rings pursue each other;
All below grows black as night,
Just as if mother
Had blown out the light!
Patience, children, just a minute--
See the spreading circles die;
The stream and all in it
Will clear by-and-by.

Let the crows go by hawking their caw and caw.
They have been swimming in midnights of coal mines somewhere.
Let 'em hawk their caw and caw.
Let the woodpecker drum and drum on a hickory stump.
He has been swimming in red and blue pools somewhere hundreds of years
And the blue has gone to his wings and the red has gone to his head.
Let his red head drum and drum.
Let the dark pools hold the birds in a looking-glass.
And if the pool wishes, let it shiver to the blur of many wings, old swimmers from old places.
Let the redwing streak a line of vermillion on the green wood lines.
And the mist along the river fix its purple in lines of a woman's shawl on lazy shoulders.

I know a green grass path that leaves the field,
And like a running river, winds along
Into a leafy wood where is no throng
Of birds at noon-day, and no soft throats yield
Their music to the moon. The place is sealed,
An unclaimed sovereignty of voiceless song,
And all the unravished silences belong
To some sweet singer lost or unrevealed.
So is my soul become a silent place.
Oh, may I wake from this uneasy night
To find a voice of music manifold.
Let it be shape of sorrow with wan face,
Or Love that swoons on sleep, or else delight
That is as wide-eyed as a marigold.

There is a great river this side of Stygia
Before one comes to the first black cataracts
And trees that lack the intelligence of trees.
In that river, far this side of Stygia,
The mere flowing of the water is a gayety,
Flashing and flashing in the sun. On its banks,
No shadow walks. The river is fateful,
Like the last one. But there is no ferryman.
He could not bend against its propelling force.
It is not to be seen beneath the appearances
That tell of it. The steeple at Farmington
Stands glistening and Haddam shines and sways.
It is the third commonness with light and air,
A curriculum, a vigor, a local abstraction . . .
Call it, one more, a river, an unnamed flowing,
Space-filled, reflecting the seasons, the folk-lore
Of each of the senses; call it, again and again,
The river that flows nowhere, like a sea.

The river sings
A voice rises above
Fairer than the water, rings
I know you well
For the river has told
All there is to tell
It sung of a maiden
Fair as the water’s song
Her heart heavy laden
Though she sang
Her song was sorrowed
In voice the sadness rang
No words were needed
The river knew
Her voice it heeded
She walked alone
Her gaiety was lost
River, her only home
She listened to the water
Telling a story
Calling her River Daughter
The river sang, through day and night
Sang for her, the only listener
She joined the song, through dark and light
She called to her lover
Come free me!
Called with song and river

I THOUGHT of Thee, my partner and my guide,
As being pass'd away.--Vain sympathies!
For, backward, Duddon! as I cast my eyes,
I see what was, and is, and will abide;
Still glides the Stream, and shall for ever glide;
The Form remains, the Function never dies;
While we, the brave, the mighty, and the wise,
We Men, who in our morn of youth defied
The elements, must vanish;--be it so!
Enough, if something from our hands have power
To live, and act, and serve the future hour;
And if, as toward the silent tomb we go,
Through love, through hope, and faith's transcendent dower,
We feel that we are greater than we know.

Uh oh! wakin' up from a dream
Wishin you were here with me
Jump up and down, now clap ya hands
One more teenage romance
Single? yeah, thats my thing
No commitment, no promise ring
Scream 'yeah' if ya understand
One more teenage romace
CHORUS:
Find myself waitin for your call
When i dont think of u i think of nothin at all
So if ya agree-scream shout and
Give it up for another teen romance
Oopsie daisy I'm lost in your eyes
For a moment you're the love of my life
Ever ended forever? lets see a show o' hands
One more teenage romance
1 week? 2 weeks? maybe a year?
How many temp. forevers we got in here?
Daddies an mommas got up n ran
Uh oh. Another teen romance

Love is pain
So scars remain
Mind and body,
It's all the same
I love you now
Like I loved you then
Why do we have to just stay friends?
Is this just my fantasy
because you act like we were never meant
to be
I send you roses, they're usually white
But now that I have changed my mind,
They are blood red
You ask me why and I say
because my wrists bleed for you in the night
I sit alone in my room, listening to the music
That we used to
Then I slowly start to notice that everything
We had has come to an end
Right now I'm hurt and you don't
understand
So let go of my hand
At least until you understand
: : ..**xx Black ROSE Romance xx**..: :

The shock makes me shake……,
When I’m in your embrace…..,
Sends me like a rocket into outer space…..,
Almost nuclear power…….,
A sensation I cannot erase……,
Thunder shakes me……,
As the passion takes me……,
And I don’t stand a chance……,
With this Electrified Romance……,
Can’t resist your magnetic charm……,
When we touch my heart sounds an alarm…..,
To run away, but I really want to stay…..,
Cause I’ve got high-voltage streaking through my veins…..,
As a Sensual Telepathy*** connects our brains……,
It’s an Electrified Romance……! ! !
(*** Sensual Telepathy, recorded by T.M.. (c)  T.M Music, Inc.,2006.)

It’s a kamikaze romance
With our hearts strapped in the seats
And we wage a war called Love
And we’ll not concede defeat
Even if it means flying
In the face of certain doom
We both know the end is coming,
And the end is coming soon…
It’s a kamikaze romance
How sweet the flight, though, while it lasts
Hurtling through the air
Watching heart-shaped clouds zooming past…
Let’s try, love, not to think
Of how this must come to an end
We know it will not last forever
But at least we can pretend…
It’s a kamikaze romance
And when our course starts turning downwards
All the memories of what we had
Will forever be ours
When comes the end; with tears,
With a scream, and with a screech,
Perhaps they’ll find pieces of our broken hearts
Strewn across some glassy beach…

Old fashioned movies
With true love to gain
Always remember romance
And kiss in the rain.
The only thing you have
Is the hope of his kiss
And waiting for the day
Is all that you miss
In love, in romance
Looking into his eyes
Is all you want to do
No time for any lies
So send him a text
Drop him a line
And maybe one day
He’ll take the time
He’ll fall for you
And never look back
Your life will be bright
No time for dark, no black
I hope he’s always there
To take away my pain
And to remember romance
And to kiss in the rain

a boy and girl walking home from school one day.
girl-so what are we doing tonight
boy-i dont know want to watch a movie
girl-sure what are we going to watch?
boy-not sure yet ill think of something
girl-lets watch a romance.
boy-nooo thats boyfriend girlfriend junk.
gurl-(sighs)    but umm well...
boy- what? whats rong.
girl-i was just hoping.
boy-what? (confused)
walks to front door
boy-umm oook well ill see you later.
girl- yeah' right cya (frowns)    as she walks away
girl goes over boys house  and rings the doorbell boy answers
boy-Wow You look GREAT' thought we where just watching a movie.
girl-we are i just thought i would dress up a little.
boy-lol what ever
boy and girl sits on couch.
girl- soo what are we going to watch-gets closer.
boy-idk-backs up.
girl and boy start watching a horror flick
girl-hides face in boys chest.
boy-(smiles)    kisses girls head.
girl-smiles back.
girl and boy look into eachers eyes.
boy-moves closer
girl-moves closer
boy and girl start kissing
Boy-i have loved you for so long im glad were togeather.
Girl-i loved you to i mean i love you so much does this mean were dating
Boy-yes and im glad im dating you.
A yr later still dating boy girl get into a fight
Girl-i have to go im sorry please just understand we cant see eacher anymore
Boy-please tell me why did i do something rong?
Girl- no no please just let it be where it is im sorry i love you bye
week after that night
Boy goes over girls house theres a moving truck.
Boy walks up...girl carrying boxes
Boy-why cant we see eacher anymore and whats going on with the trucks
Girl-im moving.
Boy-i noticed
Boy- where you moving to
Girl-Florida ill call you when i get there and settled
Girl- im sorry I have to go (starts to sob/cry)
Guy just stands there and watches girl leave. as a tear rolls down his cheek
3 years later.
Girl in collage now.and has moved on with her life
Girl-hey Alexis what’s up I have to go to Jon’s room he wants to talk to me.
I think he wants to ask me out yay cant wait I have a total crush on him
Alexis - i know... butt hey I have something to tell you.
Girl-what?
Alexis-ok do you remember when you moved about 3 years ago.
Girl-  yeah (confused)    why? ?
Alexis- remember Chris.
Girl-  ummmmmyeah? ? ? ?
Alexis-he is kind of be hind you
Girl-WHAT?
Girl-looks behind her and sees a tall handsome man with long brown hair she smiles as she walks closer to her long lost friend.
Chris-I have waited so long to see you Jessica
Jessica- omg (starts to cry)
Chris-I missed you
Jessica- omg I missed you so much
Chris-I heard..lol
Jessica (blushes)    he’s just a friend
Chris-its cool so what are we doing to night? ?
Jessica- omg (blushes once more)    smiles and says idk you want to watch a movie.
At the same time Jessica and chris said how bout a romance and they both laughed
Jessica and Chris are now on there 3year in collage and still dating
three  years after collage  jessica and chris  get married and have a baby on the way and they both live happly ever after.

Romance, who loves to nod and sing,
With drowsy head and folded wing,
Among the green leaves as they shake
Far down within some shadowy lake,
To me a painted paroquet
Hath been- a most familiar bird-
Taught me my alphabet to say-
To lisp my very earliest word
While in the wild wood I did lie,
A child- with a most knowing eye.
Of late, eternal Condor years
So shake the very Heaven on high
With tumult as they thunder by,
I have no time for idle cares
Through gazing on the unquiet sky.
And when an hour with calmer wings
Its down upon my spirit flings-
That little time with lyre and rhyme
To while away- forbidden things!
My heart would feel to be a crime
Unless it trembled with the strings.

ROMANCE POINT [5]
esspeecee …11.06.09.
Why browse
Thro’ eyes
Why not open file?
And save as
‘Save as…’
Cut and paste
You can do
But it’s not
Aye: To love.
Copy and paste
Still not
Aye: To love.
Open the file
Fiddle and fondle me
I can’t be hidden file
If saved as
‘Save as…’
Browsing thro’ heart,
Bring me near
To your
Tremulous heart
I’ll be with you too in
Choreographic synchrony.
.
Make a virus check
To prevent goofing
Love is:
Dewy drops of rapture
Get coalesced effortlessly.
When saved
Send the love
To me by
E-mail with correct ID.
I’ll save
It, as save as…
No, save into
My breast silhouette
Where plays cosmetic
Red, blue, green &c
A designer
Canopy of
My Romance Point.
Copyright reserved by the Author
.
.

The pleasing sweets of spring and summer past,
The falling leaf flies in the sultry blast,
The fields resign their spangling orbs of gold,
The wrinkled grass its silver joys unfold,
Mantling the spreading moor in heavenly white,
Meeting from every hill the ravished sight.
The yellow flag uprears its spotted head,
Hanging regardant o'er its watery bed;
The worthy knight ascends his foaming steed,
Of size uncommon, and no common breed.
His sword of giant make hangs from his belt,
Whose piercing edge his daring foes had felt.
To seek for glory and renown he goes
To scatter death among his trembling foes;
Unnerved by fear, they trembled at his stroke;
So cutting blasts shake the tall mountain oak.
Down in a dark and solitary vale,
Where the curst screech-owl sings her fatal tale,
Where copse and brambles interwoven lie,
Where trees intwining arch the azure sky,
Thither the fate-marked champion bent his way,
By purling streams to lose the heat of day;
A sudden cry assaults his listening ear,
His soul's too noble to admit of fear.-
The cry re-echoes; with his bounding steed
He gropes the way from whence the cries proceed.
The arching trees above obscured the light,
Here 'twas all evening, there eternal night.
And now the rustling leaves and strengthened cry
Bespeaks the cause of the confusion nigh;
Through the thick brake th'astonished champion sees
A weeping damsel bending on her knees:
A ruffian knight would force her to the ground,
But still some small resisting strength she found.
(Women and cats, if you compulsion use,
The pleasure which they die for will refuse.)
The champion thus: 'Desist, discourteous knight,
Why dost thou shamefully misuse thy might?'
With eye contemptuous thus the knight replies,
'Begone! whoever dares my fury dies!'
Down to the ground the champion's gauntlet flew,
'I dare thy fury, and I'll prove it too.'
Like two fierce mountain-boars enraged they fly,
The prancing steeds make Echo rend the sky,
Like a fierce tempest is the bloody fight,
Dead from his lofty steed falls the proud ruffian knight.
The victor, sadly pleased, accosts the dame,
'I will convey you hence to whence you came.'
With look of gratitude the fair replied-
'Content; I in your virtue may confide.
But,' said the fair, as mournful she surveyed
The breathless corse upon the meadow laid,
'May all thy sins from heaven forgiveness find!
May not thy body's crimes affect thy mind!'

For love…
I will do anything and everything
I will do all  I am capable of
I will try to do the impossible
If I have to die- I shall
For love
But only for love….
© 2009 Sonya Florentino

A romantic song I dedicate,
To you from my heart's gate,
Tender love is what I want,
I hope you will certainly grant!
Life seems bleak as the ashes,
If love doesn't colour the mind,
Then even in the midst of many,
Sheer loneliness I find.
A romantic song I dedicate,
To you from my heart's gate,
Tender love is what I want,
I hope you will certainly grant!
Love is what your synonym is,
Your love makes me free,
Hold me ever closer,
Hatred I never want baby.
A romantic song I dedicate,
To you from my heart's gate,
Tender love is what I want,
I hope you will certainly grant!

dry sticks in the wind,
how have they made this from your music?
I can't pretend to like them for it.
once the skies were ours
the rainbow gleaming dome
and the multifaceted shone
even in a single dewdrop
and the blown rose.
but they have bundled you off
to the ragmen of the soul
for pennies on the dollar
I never owned.
what's owning for
if you lose this?
what will you tell your children's children
when they come to find
the trees stripped bare in summers
in a world of care,
I would ask them if I thought
they could listen and, if, I dared.
let the sere winds blow the betrayals away.
God speaks still in the solitary ear
unquenchable gold and always,
glistening
mary angela douglas 22 september 2014

On doggerel rime dedicated to you, catch my soul in narcotic romance,
In rash I'll be disjointed; in a flash,  my spirit gratifies in hypnotic trance;
For in my verse I find joy in my voice as you're my Hobson's choice!
On the paper, I bare my soul to you as you are my vocalizing voice.
Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle in my ground with romantic sound!
Thinking of you, I look at heavens and all I see is blue,
Blue skies, white clouds, but not one trace of you oh baby, baby!
I look deep into the dark night yet of no avail, I'm in love flu;
So I surfed within my heart I saw a star with your smile, oh baby baby.
Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle in my ground with romantic sound!
Let me tell you how I feel: I love you along as galaxies live, oh baby!
Look into my eyes without a blink, an island pink, oh baby,
When the sun goes down, will you be there to walk in lawn? baby!
You can see my dreams, my sorrows, my joys and more, oh baby!
Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle in my ground with romantic sound!
Pass the sugar baby; pass it, don't say maybe, baby, baby!
Kisses come with dawning sugar-sweet in the morning, oh Baby;
I become a waterwheel, turning and tasting you is my new hobby!
There's none for me so set our melody to blast forever, baby.
Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle in my ground with romantic sound!

We become sentimental
And go on the dark side of moral
Why not we think of sunny side?
When world for is so wide!
Why do not you write about deep love?
The ideals you believe in
The desire you have in heart
Always to be with her as inseparable part!
Love shall be only driving factor
Where you are romantic actor
The stage is fully open
For you to dance and sing even
Right about nature
Its change for coming future
Lovely and beautiful flowers
With natural rainy showers
Think and write about future union
How will you be bending down with affection?
What shall be your first reaction when see her?
Such shall be befitting offer!

Love is not of minds alone;
Love is not of hearts that yearn;
Love is not of bodies entwined;
Love is more than the finest wine!
Love is not just when eyes see;
Love is not just when ears hear;
Love is not all sensory;
Love is more than what you dream!
Love is not of earthly mould;
Love is not human-designed;
Love is not ephemeral;
Love is more – predestined!
Love is not of sex, age, race;
Love is not for earth’s life-span;
Love is not togetherness;
Love is more- Eternity!

Romantic poet
Sunday, January 14,2018
8: 25 AM
I call myself poet
But remainquiet
When someone offers love
I hardly can believe
Love is such world
That it can be called holier than the lord
The word itself has solution
You can make straight away the resolution
Nobody can stall
Your path and call
It as futile way
Your journey has meaningful stay
I have seen riverflowing
The birds make chirping
The wind makes silent blow
I find it all in nature's glow
Love is in my blood
I find it in neighborhood
I also see it in all objects
Love is omnipresent and this is fact
Love makes your presence
And expresses true essence
Avail if you have chance
Feel no worries or remain tense

Russian poets are not romantic.
Because nights here are very cold.
And to catch just one moment ecstatic -
You should be very quick and bold.
There is no romantics in Joseph,
Balmont - angel with shattered dreams.
And Verblessness of sorrow -
that is the Russian theme.
Loneliness is coldness.
I love it - so let it be.
It was not cold in snowy Kronstadt
since saint John became altruist.
He said to the one: 'I live for you' -
and there was a uniting flame,
that washed out all selfish sorrow,
and consumed the world by Christ's fame.

There comes a time in everybody's life
When one keeps floating and flowing
In a dreamy
And dramatic way,
Feeling free and uninhibited,
Smiling with the flowers,
Talking to
And smiling
In the adda of his own,
A hero in the making
Stylistic and fashionable,
Becoming the matter of the talk
Of the side heroines
And the heroine.
But there also a comes a time in the life
Of the hero
When he starts falling,
The flowers come not into the sweet dreams,
Under the stars and the moon
And their mysterious twinkles and moonshine,
Babbles he not,
Smiles he not,
Prefers to be alone,
Returning dejected and forlorn
From the Love City
Of the beloved,
Slapped by the hardcore realities
Of this real life.
O young man playing the role
Of a musician,
A singer
Or an announcer,
Life is not the stage of a theatre,
Life is not
What you envisage
Into the sweet dreams of yours,
Life not so imaginative and fanciful,
Look back on those
Who struggle, sacrifice and suffer
And for whom look you
A hero,
But that too is coming to a close
With the theatre closing down!
Frustrated and forlorn, the romantic
Returning into the steps of his,
Fatigued and depressed
After being beaten
on the life front
And failed,
Loved and lost,
Flirted and deceived he
And now life deceiving
And betraying him
For what he did,
What he took it for romanticism
As to love and abandon
Is not at all romanticism
And to dress stylistically too is not
As a loafer too dresses in the likewise manner.

It was a little budding rose,
Round like a fairy globe,
And shyly did its leaves unclose
Hid in their mossy robe,
But sweet was the slight and spicy smell
It breathed from its heart invisible.
The rose is blasted, withered, blighted,
Its root has felt a worm,
And like a heart beloved and slighted,
Failed, faded, shrunk its form.
Bud of beauty, bonnie flower,
I stole thee from thy natal bower.
I was the worm that withered thee,
Thy tears of dew all fell for me;
Leaf and stalk and rose are gone,
Exile earth they died upon.
Yes, that last breath of balmy scent
With alien breezes sadly blent!

You look like a black rose
in full bloom.
Your pose and the clothes you wear
Make me stare.
I am entranced hypnotised by your glance
Your raven black hair flowing down your back
Your skin porcelain pale gleaming white
Under in the moons pale light
Your lips a black shade of night
Waiting to be kissed
(please don't resist)
I could list all the ways I love thee
and still not get close
Black rose I love you the most.

616
I rose—because He sank—
I thought it would be opposite—
But when his power dropped—
My Soul grew straight.
I cheered my fainting Prince—
I sang firm—even—Chants—
I helped his Film—with Hymn—
And when the Dews drew off
That held his Forehead stiff—
I met him—
Balm to Balm—
I told him Best—must pass
Through this low Arch of Flesh—
No Casque so brave
It spurn the Grave—
I told him Worlds I knew
Where Emperors grew—
Who recollected us
If we were true—
And so with Thews of Hymn—
And Sinew from within—
And ways I knew not that I knew—till then—
I lifted Him—

A single flow'r he sent me, since we met.
All tenderly his messenger he chose;
Deep-hearted, pure, with scented dew still wet -
One perfect rose.
I knew the language of the floweret;
'My fragile leaves,' it said, 'his heart enclose.'
Love long has taken for his amulet
One perfect rose.
Why is it no one ever sent me yet
One perfect limousine, do you suppose?
Ah no, it's always just my luck to get
One perfect rose.

Rose, harsh rose,
marred and with stint of petals,
meagre flower, thin,
sparse of leaf,
more precious
than a wet rose
single on a stem --
you are caught in the drift.
Stunted, with small leaf,
you are flung on the sand,
you are lifted
in the crisp sand
that drives in the wind.
Can the spice-rose
drip such acrid fragrance
hardened in a leaf?

That strain again? It seems to tell
Of something like a joy departed;
I love its mourning accents well,
Like voice of one, ah! broken-hearted.
That note that pensive dies away,
And can each answering thrill awaken,
It sadly, wildly, seems to say,
Thy meek heart mourns its truth forsaken.
Or there was one who never more
Shall meet thee with the looks of gladness,
When all of happier life was o'er,
When first began thy night of sadness.
Sweet mourner, cease that melting strain,
Too well it suits the grave's cold slumbers;
Too well the heart that loved in vain
Breathes, lives, and weeps in those wild numbers.

O flower at my window
Why blossom you so fair,
With your green and purple cup
Upturned to sun and air?
'I bloom, blithesome Bessie,
To cheer your childish heart;
The world is full of labor,
And this shall be my part.'
Whirl, busy wheel, faster,
Spin, little thread, spin;
The sun shines fair without,
And we are gay within.
O robin in the tree-top,
With sunshine on your breast,
Why brood you so patiently
Above your hidden nest?
'I brood, blithesome Bessie,
And sing my humble song,
That the world may have more music
From my little ones erelong.'
Whirl, busy wheel, faster,
Spin, little thread, spin;
The sun shines fair without,
And we are gay within.
O balmy wind of summer,
O silver-singing brook,
Why rustle through the branches?
Why shimmer in your nook?
'I flutter, blithesome Bessie,
Like a blessing far and wide;
I scatter bloom and verdue
Where'er my footsteps glide.'
Whirl, busy wheel, faster,
Spin, little thread, spin;
The sun shines fair without,
And we are gay within.
O brook and breeze and blossom,
And robin on the tree,
You make a joy of duty,
A pride of industry;
Teach me to work as blithely,
With a willing hand and heart:
The world is full of labor,
And I must do my part.
Whirl, busy wheel, faster,
Spin, little thread, spin;
The sun shines fair without,
And we are gay within.

A ROSE, as fair as ever saw the North,
Grew in a little garden all alone;
A sweeter flower did Nature ne'er put forth,
Nor fairer garden yet was never known:
The maidens danced about it morn and noon,
And learned bards of it their ditties made;
The nimble fairies by the pale-faced moon
Water'd the root and kiss'd her pretty shade.
But well-a-day! - the gardener careless grew;
The maids and fairies both were kept away,
And in a drought the caterpillars threw
Themselves upon the bud and every spray.
God shield the stock! If heaven send no supplies,
The fairest blossom of the garden dies.

When I laid aside the verses of Mimnermus,
I lived a life of canned heat and raw hands,
alone, not far from my body did I wander,
walked with a hope of a sudden dreamy forest of gold.
O rose, downfallen, bend your huge vegetic back;
eye down the imposter sun...in winter dream
sulk your rosefamed head into the bile of golden giant,
ah, rose, augment the rose further still!
whence upon that self-created dive in Eden
you blossomed where the Watchmaker of Nothingness
lulled,
your birth did cause bits of smashed night to pop,
causing my dreamy forest to unfold.
Yes, and the Watchmaker, his wheely-flesh
and jewelled-bones spoiled as he awoke,
and in the face of your Somethingness, he fled
waving oblivious monks in his unwinded hands.
The sun cannot see upheaved spatics, the tennis of Venus
and the court of Mars sing the big lie of the sun,
ah, faraway ball of fur, sponge up the elements;
make clear the trees and the mountains of the earth,
arise and turn away from the vast fixedness.
Rose! Rose! my tinhorneared rose!
Rose is my visionic eyehand of all Mysticdom
Rose is my wise chair of bombed houses
Rose is my patient electric eyes, eyes, eyes, eyes,
Rose is my festive jowl,
Dali Lama Grand Vicar Glorious Caesar rose!
When I hear the rose scream
I gather all the failure experiments of an anatomical empire
and, with some chemical dream, discover
the hateful law of the earth and sun, and the screaming
rose between.

At least he's not causing pollution of him that would be fair to say
He runs to the work yard in the morning and back home at the end of the day
A distance of some twelve kilometres that is six kilometres each way
A fitness fanatic and a hard working fellow for him never an easy pay.
Wearing running road shoes and shorts and a light vest he carries his working gear in his backpack
He runs to the work yard every morning and after work to home runs back
A man in his thirties with a wife and teenage daughters he is a few years past his prime
He never does work at the weekends and he never does work overtime.
One who has run in many marathons and he always finishes his race
his last marathon was his best finish just beaten by the winner into second place
Still he is one I do not envy and him I've no wish to emulate
I could not push myself like he does I have no desire to be great.
Just before daybreak in the morning he is one you are bound to meet
He runs to his workplace in the Suburbs on the sidewalk from street to street
To running he does seem addicted he works hard and he runs every day
Whilst others in their their beds are sleeping through the suburbs to works he jogs his way.

Ho! green fields and running brooks!
Knotted strings and fishing-hooks
Of the truant, stealing down
Weedy backways of the town.
Where the sunshine overlooks,
By green fields and running brooks,
All intruding guests of chance
With a golden tolerance,
Cooing doves, or pensive pair
Of picnickers, straying there--
By green fields and running brooks,
Sylvan shades and mossy nooks!
And--O Dreamer of the Days,
Murmurer of roundelays
All unsung of words or books,
Sing green fields and running brooks!

There are days when you feel
you are going to get so much done.
So much for good intentions.
When you start to get
the old run around.
It seems that life
is going around in circles.
What started as a lead ahead
now has you thirty yards behind.
You feel like you should have stayed in bed
and got up the other side,
but you don’t.
Instead, you persevere
to go running round in circles
all the day long.
19 February 2008

Boat
Run...
On the sea...
On the wave...

A shaky hand on the horn,
Other on the gear.
A ear listening music,
Cell phone in the other ear.
A trembling foot on accelerator,
Other on the clutch,
Unsettled mind and clumsy eyes,
On scantily clad girls.
Welcome to a fast running nation,
Driven by fools and jokers,
On bumpy and dumpy roads,
Pulling the nation for untimely doom.
Sick, secular, tottering leaders,
Salute this deceitful spirit,
Welcome to a nation minus nationalism,
This is the wonder that is India.
From:
DR. Yogesh SHARMA

Without even a by -your –leave
the Future came in
sat down & grinned: “Right...
I’m here...now where do we begin.? ”
“Whowhatwherewhyhow! ”
I positively blustered.
“Stop blustering you idiot! You’re beginning to spit!
& as for this certain IT...you’ve been waiting for
...it’s already begun to happen...hasn’t it?
Now, just get on with it! ”
Who was I to argue?
I was only the Past Imperfect
with nothing but the Present
to stand up in
and this was
...the Future Tense.
The Future smiled at me
as if it were...one step
ahead of me
all the time.
and I stumbled after it
trying to keep up
in its belief in me.
“I guess it’s Time! ”
The Future said
& lead me to myself.
“Well, get on with it! ”

Running Running
away from my tears
away from my pain
away from my fears
away from my shame
away from my peers
Running Running
ill be with you there
ill make you happy
Ill be your right pair
Rnning Running
i wish i was gay
i wish for that happiness
i wish? must i may?
Running Running
im running so fast
away from my family
away from my past
running running
i am so ashamed
i am so embarrassed
im a bottle of pain

In a land of distant memory,
in the primal world of old,
dog and man were enemies;
and our story should be told.
Beyond the mystic mountain,
lived a pack of hungry hounds;
with a tribe of rustic humans,
who lacked our strength renowned.
A menace to our hunting grounds,
they laid their claim to turf;
and fenced our range to out of bounds,
and stole our birthright, earth.
Our children too were victims,
of eugenic genocide.
The wild spirit of our nature;
broken, tamed, denied.
They call us now the running dogs,
the stunted and the hunted dogs.
They call us now the running dogs,
but are we running scared?
We were once the Big Bad Wolf,
fierce nemesis of cloven hoof.
We patrolled the deep dark wood,
and took the rap for Riding Hood.
We were once a breed to fear,
of sneering breath and snarling leer.
We were threats to little pigs,
and architects in flimsy digs.
But now we lounge on comfy chairs,
grow fat and soft and take on airs.
As trustee to a gaoler's whim,
our savage past must fade and dim.
They call us now the running dogs,
not cunning, merely stunning dogs.
They call us now the running dogs,
but are we running scared?
Running, running, running dogs.
I see and shun those running dogs.
Running, running, running dogs;
the docked and doctored curs.
Running, running, running dogs.
I see no fun in running dogs.
Running, running, running dogs;
till our heaving lungs will burst.
Running, running, running dogs.
And I am done with running dogs.
Running, running, running dogs.
For by that name we're cursed!

time is running out
tell me now before i leave
time is running out
what i have is what you need
time is running out
for you to tell me how you feel
time is running out
for you
but not for me to heal

Where are you, boys and girls
of Miss Lindahl's 5th grade class?
What became of you
when you slipped off
the far edge of my world?
Many of you
I never saw again,
or even thought of
until I saw this picture,
yet you occupy a place
that can't be filled
by anyone but you —
so much yourselves,
untrained as yet
in putting on a face.
Your faces are colors
long forgotten,
your names sound notes
of a long-lost scale:
Harvey Baer, Gail Rutherford,
Marion Phipps, Jonathon Katz,
Temmy Goldwasser, Randy Wahl —
your names are bells that angels ring,
tolling the music of the spheres.

Prelude to "Stalky & Co."
"Let us now praise famous men"--
Men of little showing--
For their work continueth,
And their work continueth,
Broad and deep continues,
Greater then their knowing!
Western wind and open surge
Took us from our mothers--
Flung us on a naked shore
(Twelve bleak houses by the shore.
Seven summers by the shore! )
'Mid two hundred brothers.
There we met with famous men
Set in office o'er us;
And they beat on us with rods--
Faithfully with many rods--
Daily beat us on with rods,
For the love they bore us!
Out of Egypt unto Troy--
Over Himalaya--
Far and sure our bands have gone--
Hy-Brazil or Babylon,
Islands of the Southern Run,
And Cities of Cathaia!
And we all praise famous men--
Ancients of the College;
For they taught us common sense--
Tried to teach us common sense--
Truth and God's Own Common Sense,
Which is more than knowledge!
Each degree of Latitude
Strung about Creation
Seeth one or more of us
(Of one muster each of us),
Diligent in that he does,
Keen in his vocation.
This we learned from famous men,
Knowing not its uses,
When they showed, in daily work--
Man must finish off his work--
Right or wrong, his daily work--
And without excuses.
Servant of the Staff and chain,
Mine and fuse and grapnel--
Some, before the face of Kings,
Stand before the face of Kings;
Bearing gifts to divers Kings--
Gifts of case and shrapnel.
This we learned from famous men
Teaching in our borders,
Who declared it was best,
Safest, easiest, and best--
Expeditious, wise, and best--
To obey your orders.
Some beneath the further stars
Bear the greater burden:
Set to serve the lands they rule,
(Save he serve no man may rule),
Serve and love the lands they rule;
Seeking praise nor guerdon.
This we learned from famous men,
Knowing not we learned it.
Only, as the years went by--
Lonely, as the years went by--
Far from help as years went by,
Plainer we discerned it.
Wherefore praise we famous men
From whose bays we borrow--
They that put aside To-day--
All the joys of their To-day--
And with toil of their To-day
Bought for us To-morrow!
Bless and praise we famous men--
Men of little showing--
For their work continueth,
And their work continueth,
Broad and deep continueth,
Great beyond their knowing!

Going to a new school somewhere I never went,
This couldn't happen to me, this I never even dreamt
Thoughts line up in my head,
The ones that I truly dread
How might my new class mates be
Would they pick on me,
Or would they tease me
How many times did my mother tell me to stay strong,
That only the things in your head are what make you act wrong,
And also that things change due to the way we think,
Great things can suddenly be destructed under the rate of a blink,
Just because the way we thought was not  right or just.
I know better, to stay strong and happy,
But that cannot possibly happen under all this anxiety.
How can I suddenly move out of a place,
Which was like a home to me
Now I might fall into a rat race,
Where I might find no one like me
My former school suddenly seems like the best place now,
Although things weren’t great at first I know that that is a place I truly love,
I had taken a very long time to adjust and make friends,
All that has completely gone waste, now that no one will come to save me even once
But things won’t get that worse I now seem to realize
If someone does hurt me I can pay deaf ears and close my eyes
I decide to make the first move while making new friends
Hey maybe it won’t be as bad I thought, I might even set new trends.

I sent my child to school today
With his little lunch box
When he came home he said his friend
Had gotten the chickenpox,
I sent my child to school today
And asked him what he learned
He told me about firemen
They taught him how not to get burned,
I sent my child to school today
He said, 'Do you know what they taught me? '
He told me they taught him numbers
As well as his ABC’s,
I sent my child to school today
A smile on his face
I gave him a kiss and a hug
And said, 'See ya funny face! ',
I sent my child to school today
His smile bright and wide
But an older child brought in a gun
How did he get it inside? ,
I sent my child to school today
As in every day
But the child with the gun started shooting
The reason? No one could say,
I buried my child after school today
All I can do is cry
I lost my child at school today
And nobody can tell me why.

AN old man's thought of School;
An old man, gathering youthful memories and blooms, that youth itself
cannot.
Now only do I know you!
O fair auroral skies! O morning dew upon the grass!
And these I see--these sparkling eyes,
These stores of mystic meaning--these young lives,
Building, equipping, like a fleet of ships--immortal ships!
Soon to sail out over the measureless seas,
On the Soul's voyage.
Only a lot of boys and girls?                                      10
Only the tiresome spelling, writing, ciphering classes?
Only a Public School?
Ah more--infinitely more;
(As George Fox rais'd his warning cry, "Is it this pile of brick and
mortar--these dead floors, windows, rails--you call the church?
Why this is not the church at all--the Church is living, ever living
Souls.")
And you, America,
Cast you the real reckoning for your present?
The lights and shadows of your future--good or evil?
To girlhood, boyhood look--the Teacher and the School.

My poetic side
At full force
Suicidal thoughts
Inside they course
Pain over bearing
Day not so good
Everyone staring
I am misunderstood
This alien blood
Flows deep inside
This overwhelming flood
Is the reason I died

Every school has a name but
school is so lame
school what can I say
school im there like every day
school is like a prison, you can nver escape
school is like having a detencion every day
school you tell us to do schoolwork and at home we have to do homework: (
school, school, school
work, work, work
study, study, study
test, test, test it all goes trough my mind
what else should i do
might the principle think; .
My school
My rules
My way or the hard way
This is what i think
Im
Victor Arambula

It  now is time.
I'll have to tell the world.
And never did I ever
mean to do this.
Regardless of,
what peers today
require,
I will come out.
The girl I love is
no one you would know.
She is the sweetest,
loveliest of all.
She walks around
as if the world could
well ignore her.
I am afraid,
I tell you with
reluctance,
that someone bigger,
better, smarter comes along.
And takes her on his horse
to distant fields,
she would forget
her home,
and me the
fool from school.
What do you think?
She loves me and
I love her.
Would all this count enough
to seal
our pact forever?

Auditæ voces, vagitus et ingens,Infantunque animæ flentes in limine primo. Virg.ADVERTISEMENT
What particulars in Spenser were imagined most proper for the author's imitationon this occasion, are his language, his simplicity, his manner of description,and a peculiar tenderness of sentiment remarkable throughout his works.
Ah me! full sorely is my heart forlorn,
To think how modest worth neglected lies;
While partial fame doth with her blasts adorn
Such deeds alone, as pride and pomp disguise;
Deeds of ill sort, and mischievous emprize!
Lend me thy clarion, goddess! let me try
To sound the praise of merit, ere it dies;
Such as I oft have chaunced to espy,
Lost in the dreary shades of dull obscurity.
In ev'ry village mark'd with little spire,
Embow'r'd in trees, and hardly known to fame,
There dwells, in lowly shed, and mean attire,
A matron old, whom we school-mistress name;
Who boasts unruly brats with birch to tame;
They grieven sore, in piteous durance pent,
Aw'd by the pow'r of this relentless dame;
And oft-times, on vagaries idly bent,
For unkempt hair, or task unconn'd, are sorely shent.
And all in sight doth rise a birchen tree,
Which learning near her little dome did stowe;
Whilom a twig of small regard to see,
Tho' now so wide its waving branches flow;
And work the simple vassals mickle woe;
For not a wind might curl the leaves that blew,
But their limbs shudder'd, and their pulse beat low;
And, as they look'd, they found their horror grew,
And shap'd it into rods, and tingled at the view.
So have I seen (who has not, may conceive,)
A lifeless phantom near a garden plac'd;
So doth it wanton birds of peace bereave,
Of sport, of song, of pleasure, of repast;
They start, they stare, they wheel, they look aghast:
Sad servitude! such comfortless annoy
May no bold Briton's riper age e'er taste!
Ne superstition clog his dance of joy,
Ne vision empty, vain, his native bliss destroy.
Near to this dome is found a patch so green,
On which the tribe their gambols do display;
And at the door impris'ning board is seen,
Lest weakly wights of smaller size should stray;
Eager, perdie, to bask in sunny day!
The noises intermix'd, which thence resound,
Do learning's little tenement betray:
Where sits the dame, disguis'd in look profound,
And eyes her fairy throng, and turns her wheel around.
Her cap, far whiter than the driven snow,
Emblem right meet of decency does yield:
Her apron dy'd in grain, as blue, I trowe,
As is the hare-bell that adorns the field:
And in her hand, for scepter, she does wield
Tway birchen sprays; with anxious fear entwin'd,
With dark distrust, and sad repentance fill'd;
And stedfast hate, and sharp affliction join'd,
And fury uncontroul'd, and chastisement unkind.
Few but have kenn'd, in semblance meet pourtray'd,
The childish faces of old Eol's train;
Libs, Notus, Auster: these in frowns array'd,
How then would fare or earth, or sky, or main,
Were the stern god to give his slaves the rein?
And were not she rebellious breasts to quell,
And were not she her statutes to maintain,
The cott no more, I ween, were deem'd the cell,
Where comely peace of mind, and decent order dwell.
A russet stole was o'er her shoulders thrown;
A russet kirtle fenc'd the nipping air;
'Twas simple russet, but it was her own;
'Twas her own country bred the flock so fair;
'Twas her own labour did the fleece prepare;
And, sooth to say, her pupils, rang'd around,
Thro' pious awe, did term it passing rare;
For they in gaping wonderment abound,
And think, no doubt, she been the greatest wight on ground
Albeit ne flatt'ry did corrupt her truth,
Ne pompous title did debauch her ear;
Goody, good-woman, gossip, n'aunt, forsooth,
Or dame, the sole additions she did hear;
Yet these she challeng'd, these she held right dear:
Ne would esteem him act as mought behove,
Who should not honour'd eld with these revere:
For never title yet so mean could prove,
But there was eke a mind which did that title love.
One ancient hen she took delight to feed,
The plodding pattern of the busy dame;
Which, ever and anon, impell'd by need,
Into her school, begirt with chickens, came;
Such favour did her past deportment claim:
And, if neglect had lavish'd on the ground
Fragment of bread, she would collect the same;
For well she knew, and quaintly could expound,
What sin it were to waste the smallest crumb she found.
...

Alone i lay on a wooden raft
Alone i stay in the dark
Alone i pray to survive
Alone i may not survive
Alone i look out the sea
Alone i wake up on the sea
Alone i seek out for help
Alone i may not survive
Alone i eat my dry food
Alone i drink the salty water
Alone i sit in the cold
Alone i may not survive
Alone, yes, alone i stare at the storm
Alone, yes, alone i live on the sea
Alone, yes, alone i wait for the rescue boat
Alone, yes, alone i may not survive
Alone, yes, alone i pray to be safe
Alone, yes, alone i call out for help
Alone, yes, alone i get on the boat
Alone, yes, alone i was rescued
Alone, yes, alone i lived on sea for months
Alone, yes, alone i walk ashore unaided
Alone, yes, alone i continue to hold the
Guinness World Record for survival at sea

'Farewell and adieu' was the burden prevailing
Long since in the chant of a home-faring crew;
And the heart in us echoes, with laughing or wailing,
Farewell and adieu.
Each year that we live shall we sing it anew,
With a water untravelled before us for sailing
And a water behind us that wrecks may bestrew.
The stars of the past and the beacons are paling,
The heavens and the waters are hoarier of hue:
But the heart in us chants not an all unavailing
Farewell and adieu.

'Twas a fearful night -- the tempest raved
With loud and wrathful pride,
The storm-king harnessed his lightning steeds,
And rode on the raging tide.
The sea-king lay on his bed of death,
Pale mourners around him bent;
They knew the wild and fitful life
Of their chief was almost spent.
His ear was growing dull in death
When the angry storm he heard,
The sluggish blood in the old man's veins
With sudden vigor stirred.
"I hear them call," cried the dying man,
His eyes grew full of light;
"Now bring me here my warrior robes,
My sword and armor bright.
"In the tempest's lull I heard a voice,
I knew 'twas Odin's call.
The Valkyrs are gathering round my bed
To lead me unto his hall.
"Bear me unto my noblest ship,
Light up a funeral pyre;
I'll walk to the palace of the braves
Through a path of flame and fire."
Oh! wild and bright was the stormy light
That flashed from the old man's eye,
As they bore him from the couch of death
To his battle-ship to die,
And lit with many a mournful torch
The sea-king's dying bed,
And like a banner fair and bright
The flames around him spread.
But they heard no cry of anguish
Break through that fiery wall,
With rigid brow and silent lips
He was seeking Odin's hall.
Through a path of fearful splendor,
While strong men held their breath,
The brave old man went boldly forth
And calmly talked with death.

SWIFT o'er the bounding deep the VESSEL glides,
Its streamers flutt'ring in the summer gales,
The lofty mast the breezy air derides,
As gaily o'er the glitt'ring surf she sails.
Now beats each gallant heart with innate joys,
Bright hopes and tender fears alternate vie,
Dear schemes of pure delight the mind employs,
And the soul glistens in the tearful eye.
The fond expecting Maid delighted stands
On the bleak summit of yon chalky bourn,
With waving handkerchief and lifted hands
She hails her darling Sailor's safe return.
Ill-fated Maid, ne'er shall thy gentle breast
The chaste reward of constant passion prove,
Ne'er shall that timid form again be press'd
In the dear bondage of unsullied love:
Stern Heaven forbids­the dark o'erwhelming deep
Mocks the poor pilot's skill, and braves his sighs;
O'er the high deck the frothy billows sweep,
And the fierce tempest drowns the sea boy's cries.
The madd'ning ocean swells with furious roar,
See the devoted bark, the shatter'd mast,
The splitting hulk dash'd on the rocky shore,
Rolls 'midst the howlings of the direful blast.
O'er the vex'd deep the vivid sulphur flies,
The jarring elements their clamours blend,
The deaf'ning thunder roars along the skies,
And whistling winds from lurid clouds descend.
The lab'ring wreck, contending with the wave,
Mounts to the blast, or plunges in the main,
The trembling wretch suspended o'er his grave,
Clings to the tatter'd shrouds, the pouring rain
Chills his sad breast, methinks I see him weep,
I hear his fearful groan his mutter'd pray'r,
O, cease to mourn, behold the yawning deep
Where soon thy weary soul shall mock Despair,
Yes, soon thy aching heart shall rest in peace,
For in the arms of Death all human sorrows cease.

You are the ocean, endless
I am but a tiny grain of sand
After being bathed countless times
By your great tides
Still wait for
Another countless baths.
Each tide
Like a dream
Attracts me to its heart
But, every time
I am thrown back
To the shore of day's reality.
My soul expands
To billions and billions sandgrains
Uniting with them
I become the sea-shore
Then I take your endlessness
In my embrace.

OUT of the cradle endlessly rocking,
Out of the mocking-bird's throat, the musical shuttle,
Out of the Ninth-month midnight,
Over the sterile sands, and the fields beyond, where the child,
leaving his bed, wander'd alone, bare-headed, barefoot,
Down from the shower'd halo,
Up from the mystic play of shadows, twining and twisting as if they
were alive,
Out from the patches of briers and blackberries,
From the memories of the bird that chanted to me,
From your memories, sad brother--from the fitful risings and fallings
I heard,
From under that yellow half-moon, late-risen, and swollen as if with
tears,                                                       10
From those beginning notes of sickness and love, there in the
transparent mist,
From the thousand responses of my heart, never to cease,
From the myriad thence-arous'd words,
From the word stronger and more delicious than any,
From such, as now they start, the scene revisiting,
As a flock, twittering, rising, or overhead passing,
Borne hither--ere all eludes me, hurriedly,
A man--yet by these tears a little boy again,
Throwing myself on the sand, confronting the waves,
I, chanter of pains and joys, uniter of here and hereafter,        20
Taking all hints to use them--but swiftly leaping beyond them,
A reminiscence sing.
Once, Paumanok,
When the snows had melted--when the lilac-scent was in the air, and
the Fifth-month grass was growing,
Up this sea-shore, in some briers,
Two guests from Alabama--two together,
And their nest, and four light-green eggs, spotted with brown,
And every day the he-bird, to and fro, near at hand,
And every day the she-bird, crouch'd on her nest, silent, with bright
eyes,
And every day I, a curious boy, never too close, never disturbing
them,                                                        30
Cautiously peering, absorbing, translating.
Shine! shine! shine!
Pour down your warmth, great Sun!
While we bask--we two together.
Two together!
Winds blow South, or winds blow North,
Day come white, or night come black,
Home, or rivers and mountains from home,
Singing all time, minding no time,
While we two keep together.                                        40
Till of a sudden,
May-be kill'd, unknown to her mate,
One forenoon the she-bird crouch'd not on the nest,
Nor return'd that afternoon, nor the next,
Nor ever appear'd again.
And thenceforward, all summer, in the sound of the sea,
And at night, under the full of the moon, in calmer weather,
Over the hoarse surging of the sea,
Or flitting from brier to brier by day,
I saw, I heard at intervals, the remaining one, the he-bird,       50
The solitary guest from Alabama.
Blow! blow! blow!
Blow up, sea-winds, along Paumanok's shore!
I wait and I wait, till you blow my mate to me.
Yes, when the stars glisten'd,
All night long, on the prong of a moss-scallop'd stake,
Down, almost amid the slapping waves,
Sat the lone singer, wonderful, causing tears.
He call'd on his mate;
He pour'd forth the meanings which I, of all men, know.            60
Yes, my brother, I know;
The rest might not--but I have treasur'd every note;
For once, and more than once, dimly, down to the beach gliding,
Silent, avoiding the moonbeams, blending myself with the shadows,
Recalling now the obscure shapes, the echoes, the sounds and sights
after their sorts,
The white arms out in the breakers tirelessly tossing,
I, with bare feet, a child, the wind wafting my hair,
Listen'd long and long.
Listen'd, to keep, to sing--now translating the notes,
Following you, my brother.                                         70
Soothe! soothe! soothe!
Close on its wave soothes the wave behind,
And again another behind, embracing and lapping, every one close,
But my love soothes not me, not me.
Low hangs the moon--it rose late;
O it is lagging--O I think it is heavy with love, with love.
O madly the sea pushes, pushes upon the land,
With love--with love.
O night! do I not see my love fluttering out there among the
breakers?
What is that little black thing I see there in the white?          80
Loud! loud! loud!
Loud I call to you, my love!
High and clear I shoot my voice over the waves;
Surely you must know who is here, is here;
You must know who I am, my love.
Low-hanging moon!
What is that dusky spot in your brown yellow?
O it is the shape, the shape of my mate!
O moon, do not keep her from me any longer.
Land! land! O land!                                                90
Whichever way I turn, O I think you could give me my mate back again,
if you only would;
For I am almost sure I see her dimly whichever way I look.
O rising stars!
Perhaps the one I want so much will rise, will rise with some of you.
O throat! O trembling throat!
Sound clearer through the atmosphere!
Pierce the woods, the earth;
Somewhere listening to catch you, must be the one I want.
Shake out, carols!
Solitary here--the night's carols!                                100
Carols of lonesome love! Death's carols!
Carols under that lagging, yellow, waning moon!
O, under that moon, where she droops almost down into the sea!
O reckless, despairing carols.
But soft! sink low;
Soft! let me just murmur;
And do you wait a moment, you husky-noised sea;
For somewhere I believe I heard my mate responding to me,
So faint--I must be still, be still to listen;
But not altogether still, for then she might not come immediately to
me.                                                         110
Hither, my love!
Here I am! Here!
With this just-sustain'd note I announce myself to you;
This gentle call is for you, my love, for you.
Do not be decoy'd elsewhere!
That is the whistle of the wind--it is not my voice;
That is the fluttering, the fluttering of the spray;
Those are the shadows of leaves.
O darkness! O in vain!
O I am very sick and sorrowful.                                   120
O brown halo in the sky, near the moon, drooping upon the sea!
O troubled reflection in the sea!
O throat! O throbbing heart!
O all--and I singing uselessly, uselessly all the night.
Yet I murmur, murmur on!
O murmurs--you yourselves make me continue to sing, I know not why.
O past! O life! O songs of joy!
In the air--in the woods--over fields;
Loved! loved! loved! loved! loved!
But my love no more, no more with me!                             130
We two together no more.
The aria sinking;
All else continuing--the stars shining,
The winds blowing--the notes of the bird continuous echoing,
With angry moans the fierce old mother incessantly moaning,
On the sands of Paumanok's shore, gray and rustling;
The yellow half-moon enlarged, sagging down, drooping, the face of
the sea almost touching;
The boy extatic--with his bare feet the waves, with his hair the
atmosphere dallying,
The love in the heart long pent, now loose, now at last tumultuously
bursting,
The aria's meaning, the ears, the Soul, swiftly depositing,       140
The strange tears down the cheeks coursing,
The colloquy there--the trio--each uttering,
The undertone--the savage old mother, incessantly crying,
To the boy's Soul's questions sullenly timing--some drown'd secret
hissing,
To the outsetting bard of love.
Demon or bird! (said the boy's soul,)
Is it indeed toward your mate you sing? or is it mostly to me?
For I, that was a child, my tongue's use sleeping,
Now I have heard you,
Now in a moment I know what I am for--I awake,                    150
And already a thousand singers--a thousand songs, clearer, louder and
more sorrowful than yours,
A thousand warbling echoes have started to life within me,
Never to die.
O you singer, solitary, singing by yourself--projecting me;
O solitary me, listening--nevermore shall I cease perpetuating you;
Never more shall I escape, never more the reverberations,
Never more the cries of unsatisfied love be absent from me,
Never again leave me to be the peaceful child I was before what
there, in the night,
By the sea, under the yellow and sagging moon,
The messenger there arous'd--the fire, the sweet hell within,     160
The unknown want, the destiny of me.
O give me the clew! (it lurks in the night here somewhere;)
O if I am to have so much, let me have more!
O a word! O what is my destination? (I fear it is henceforth chaos;)
O how joys, dreads, convolutions, human shapes, and all shapes,
spring as from graves around me!
O phantoms! you cover all the land and all the sea!
O I cannot see in the dimness whether you smile or frown upon me;
O vapor, a look, a word! O well-beloved!
O you dear women's and men's phantoms!
A word then, (for I will conquer it,)                             170
The word final, superior to all,
Subtle, sent up--what is it?--I listen;
Are you whispering it, and have been all the time, you sea-waves?
Is that it from your liquid rims and wet sands?
Whereto answering, the sea,
Delaying not, hurrying not,
Whisper'd me through the night, and very plainly before day-break,
Lisp'd to me the low and delicious word DEATH;
And again Death--ever Death, Death, Death,
Hissing melodious, neither like the bird, nor like my arous'd child's
heart,                                                      180
But edging near, as privately for me, rustling at my feet,
Creeping thence steadily up to my ears, and laving me softly all
over,
Death, Death, Death, Death, Death.
Which I do not forget,
But fuse the song of my dusky demon and brother,
That he sang to me in the moonlight on Paumanok's gray beach,
With the thousand responsive songs, at random,
My own songs, awaked from that hour;
And with them the key, the word up from the waves,
The word of the sweetest song, and all songs, 190
That strong and delicious word which, creeping to my feet,
The sea whisper'd me.

I
To none the city bends a servile knee;
Purse-proud and scornful, on her heights she stands,
And at her feet the great white moaning sea
Shoulders incessantly the grey-gold sands,--
One the Almighty's child since time began,
And one the might of Mammon, born of clods;
For all the city is the work of man,
But all the sea is God's.
II
And she--between the ocean and the town--
Lies cursed of one and by the other blest:
Her staring eyes, her long drenched hair, her gown,
Sea-laved and soiled and dank above her breast.
She, image of her God since life began,
She, but the child of Mammon, born of clods,
Her broken body spoiled and spurned of man,
But her sweet soul is God's.

THE SEA! the sea! the open sea!
The blue, the fresh, the ever free!
Without a mark, without a bound,
It runneth the earth’s wide regions round;
It plays with the clouds; it mocks the skies;
Or like a cradled creature lies.
I ’m on the sea! I ’m on the sea!
I am where I would ever be;
With the blue above, and the blue below,
And silence wheresoe’er I go;
If a storm should come and awake the deep,
What matter? I shall ride and sleep.
I love, O, how I love to ride
On the fierce, foaming, bursting tide,
When every mad wave drowns the moon
Or whistles aloft his tempest tune,
And tells how goeth the world below,
And why the sou’west blasts do blow.
I never was on the dull, tame shore,
But I lov’d the great sea more and more,
And backwards flew to her billowy breast,
Like a bird that seeketh its mother’s nest;
And a mother she was, and is, to me;
For I was born on the open sea!
The waves were white, and red the morn,
In the noisy hour when I was born;
And the whale it whistled, the porpoise roll’d,
And the dolphins bared their backs of gold;
And never was heard such an outcry wild
As welcom’d to life the ocean-child!
I ’ve liv’d since then, in calm and strife,
Full fifty summers, a sailor’s life,
With wealth to spend and a power to range,
But never have sought nor sighed for change;
And Death, whenever he comes to me,
Shall come on the wild, unbounded sea!

Friend of my chamber--O thou spiral shell
That murmurest of the ever-murmuring sea!
Repeating with eternal constancy
Whatever memories the wave can tell;
Whatever harmonies may rise and swell,
Whatever sadness in the deep may be--
They are the ocean's, and desired of thee;
Thou treasurest what thou dost love so well.
So all my heart is one voluted fold,
Shielding one face, and evermore it seems
Upon the threshold of the prying day,
Hid in the tangle of reluctant dreams;
And in the noontide, and the evening grey,
Its light illumines secrecies untold

Why did I go out last night?
Maybe living alone,
and being at home
forced me to follow to you.
Or the excuse of a meal,
Every good deal,
Is better once
a beer or two
Why did they find me at the bar?
I was ready to leave,
And then a reprieve
“we’ve got plenty of beers up there”
Why can’t I say,
to my dismay,
“work, and I must be aware”
Why did I shotgun that beer?
Wasn’t it enough,
To drink and play rough
And why race to find some cheer
I’m not a quitter,
I’m always a winner,
And its easier to chug cold beer.
Why did I hit on that girl?
Couldn’t you see
She was not free
Her boyfriend made sure you did.
Your too old to fight,
Yet it happened last night,
Thank God you cheap shot that kid.
Why did I dance on the bar?
Don’t you think
That winning the pink
Is more difficult than being a fool?
I’m not quite sure
But after staying alert
A celebration was called for too.
Why did I kiss a townie?
You my young friend
Aren’t as dumb as you pretend
She’s twice your age atleast!
Oh well I think,
With each coming drink,
More like a model
less like a beast.
Why did I stay at her house?
And now you awake
Her kids are a play
One is already at school
Two are in college
Learning some knowledge
While mom sits on top of you
I’ve said this before
I’ll say it some more
Don’t ever go out of your way
To stay out at night,
And get into fights.
And work,
lets fake it today.
Copyright (c)      David DeSantis

Have you ever been sick?
Walked that hospital floor with a stick
Have you ever been sick?
Had an operation painted graphically horrific
My knees, weak they felt
I heard their voices melt
Into pain from poor health
For them rebirth or death sickness spelt
Suddenly I realized life is not static
While listening to a tale so tragic
A mother cried at sicknesses trick
Her family of four it decided to pick
At any time we can lose
Anyone sickness decides to abuse!
Have you ever been sick?
In vain visited numerous clinics
Have you ever been sick?
Wondering where life will next kick
Have you ever had a cough?
Thinking you are having it so rough
Have you ever suffered from heat?
Knowing others gave up there in defeat
Have you suffered from cuts?
Or open wounds that severely hurt
Have you ever looked at the sick?
And thought anyone of them eccentric
Health is wealth and good health for sure
Is created by thoughts that are deemed pure
While the clock goes tick-tock-tick
If you ever find yourself sick
It helps to eliminate the negative traffic
With more than just a mere flick
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi

im sick of not knowing,
im sick of not showing,
im sick of all the starring
im sick of not caring
im sick of being labled bad
im sick of always looking sad
im sick of feeling locked in bars
im sick of all the painful scars
im sick of all the thugs
im sick of all the drugs
im sick of asking myself why
im sick of telling myself i want to die
im sick of feeling like i always want to cry
im sick of living a lie
im sick of not having a dream
im sick of lifes borring theme
but thares only one was out...
so what does that mean?

The birds' shrill fluting
Beats on the pink blind,
Pierces the pink blind
At whose edge fumble the sun's
Fingers till one obtrudes
And stirs the thick motes.
The room is a close box of pink warmth.
The minutes click.
A man picks across the street
With a metal-pointed stick.
Three clocks drop each twelve pennies
On the drom of noon.
The birds end.
A child's cry pricks the hush.
The wind plucks at a leaf.
The birds rebegin.
Submitted by Stephen Fryer

0 Captain! My Sick Captain! One failed inning you played,
The nation has faced all the odds, the reward pined is relayed.
The target was easy, fragmented mind, people crying,
The courtier taste the cream, nation is sad and dying.
I see the bleeding masses in tattered,
My crowned Captain feigning cold and dead.
0 Captain! My Sick Captain! Get up and see the toll,
Rise up to furl the flag and hear the call.
People offered you banquets and wreaths taming,
But crushing them by your misdeeds, you are turning.
Lost in burqa, pagri and quota race,
Never thinks of hunger, thirst and labor rage.
My Captain turning aside, his lips are pale and still,
My leader does not feel the pain, no face, no will.
Crown is placed safe and sound, target closed and won,
From divided nation, the victory touched with sweet run.
Listen sad cries and ring the bell right,
Don’t be afraid of Madam White.
Crippled on the red My Captain lies,
Fallen cold and dead he cries.
FROM:
DR. YOGESH SHARMA

When I’m asleep, dreaming and lulled and warm,—
They come, the homeless ones, the noiseless dead.
While the dim charging breakers of the storm
Bellow and drone and rumble overhead,
Out of the gloom they gather about my bed.
They whisper to my heart; their thoughts are mine.
‘Why are you here with all your watches ended?
From Ypres to Frise we sought you in the Line.’
In bitter safety I awake, unfriended;
And while the dawn begins with slashing rain
I think of the Battalion in the mud.
‘When are you going out to them again?
Are they not still your brothers through our blood?’

Sick 'I cannot go to school today,'
Said little Peggy Ann McKay.
'I have the measles and the mumps,
A gash, a rash and purple bumps.
My mouth is wet, my throat is dry,
I'm going blind in my right eye.
My tonsils are as big as rocks,
I've counted sixteen chicken pox
And there's one more - that's seventeen,
And don't you think my face looks green?
My leg is cut, my eyes are blue -
It might be instamatic flu.
I cough and sneeze and gasp and choke,
I'm sure that my left leg is broke -
My hip hurts when I move my chin,
My belly button's caving in,
My back is wrenched, my ankle's sprained,
My 'pendix pains each time it rains.
My nose is cold, my toes are numb,
I have a sliver in my thumb.
My neck is stiff, my spine is weak,
I hardly whisper when I speak.
My tongue is filling up my mouth,
I think my hair is falling out.
My elbow's bent, my spine ain't straight,
My temperature is one-o-eight.
My brain is shrunk, I cannot hear,
There is a hole inside my ear.
I have a hangnail, and my heart is -
what? What's that? What's that you say?
You say today is ... Saturday?
G'bye, I'm going out to play!'

I am so sick of the cold weather
I am so sick of the winter

There is going to be an end of violence.
With a silencing of disturbed minds burned.
Increased mental illnesses will afflict.
Evidence of that,
Now exists.
This living Earth is sick of conflicts.
And those 'experiments' that leech upon it!
Many are trying to find signs to depict the end.
And the ones in worship of the falsities of deities...
Have symbolized them in flesh,
And not in 'spirits' that oversees all of their misdeeds!
There is going to be an end of violence.
With a silencing of disturbed minds burned.
Increased mental illnesses will afflict.
Evidence of that,
Now exists.
And yet there are those...
Believing they command and control,
The outcome!

884
As Everywhere of Silver
With Ropes of Sand
To keep it from effacing
The Track called Land.

You met me
and I had given up.
You met me
and I took out the good china
from Grandma's hutch;
her gold-plated knives, forks and spoons
and the silver,
toasting you
that summer night
had both of us playing house.
I was the gourmet cook,
you were eating hearty
and wolfed down lustily my heart;
made me forget giving up
for giving it up
happily;
mostly from memory
and you were kind enough
not to notice
how awkwardly
and how long
my breathing took
to run to smooth.
It was the conversation
I believe
late into the night
that over-came me
re-mending those broken heart pieces
which laid themselves out carefully
on my dining room
table;
festooned
with grandma's
silver and gold-plated spoons.
We have gone on now through
paper, wood
and silver anniversaries;
golden
on our horizon;
nearing fifty years.
Thanks Grandma
for the silver-ware
and for him.

Parliamentary democracy is shield to cheat
With smile on face when they collectively meet
Countless hours are wasted on stalling the business
The emergence of rowdy scene usually surface
It was one in million chances to succeed
The entire country is engulfed with cast and creed
No one has spared the Indian soil with their known greed
How could one stay aloof when country is still not freed?
People are disgruntled with such type of liberal democracy
It has firmly established people’s supremacy
Everything is done on the name of people’s welfare
In fact their interest is compromised as who takes care?
The pilferage and looting of public money is on large scale
The judiciary has almost become beyond reach and failed
Some of the selected cases only come in for public notice
It is really a sad show for world’s largest democracy of promises
No country can prosper if loop holes are applied
The public is not kept well informed and information is withheld
They have right to know what is going on in the holy land
Who is their real protector and stands as friend?
It is uncertain about effective diplomacy
Each party is consolidating its position and remains busy
National interest is not their concern but a compulsion
The whole of nation’s priority is utterly in confusion
We really hope that nations may survive
Some of the good steps are to be taken and revived
The country needs to protect poor and their interest
The politicians must come forward and serve to their best

When you fall in love with love
your heart and soul will tell you true,
and if you wear your silver earrings
on wings of song he'll fly to you.
Over the rainbow you'll be floating,
love's old sweet story must be told;
you will wear bright silver earrings
with his wedding band of gold.
Through the years you both will cherish
magic moments ~ forever new...
so always wear bright silver earrings
and on wings of love he'll fly to you.

My Lady comes to me in lucid dreams
Just as the mantle clock chimes midnight
She wears a gown of silver moonbeams
We dance until the early morning light
ROTMS

Layers and layers
Silk slipping
From legs
Cold dampness
Smell of sunlight
Of the afternoon
In the cold corner
1/2/2010
Islamabad

Silver spoon, or no food on the spoon,
Well to do, or merciless goon?
Noon day sun, or midnight gloom,
What spells success, or imminent doom?
We are all the same, yet, not the same,
Black and white, what's in a name?
Born to live, or born to die,
Why do some laugh, while others cry?
If, in his image, we all are made,
Why do some prosper, whlie others fade?
Why are some chained, while some are free,
Does he smile at you, and frown at me?

HOLY Lord Jesus, Thou wilt search till Thou find
This lost piece of silver,--this treasure enshrined
In casket or bosom, once of such store;
Now lying under the dust of Thy floor.
Gentle Lord Jesus, Thou wilt move through the room--
So empty--so desolate! and light up its gloom:
The lost piece of silver that no man can see,
Merciful Jesus! is beheld clear by Thee.
Defaced and degraded, trampled in the dust,
Its superscription Thou knowest still we trust:
And Thou wilt uplift it and make it re-shine,
For it was silver--pure silver of Thine.
Loving Lord Jesus, Thou wilt come through the dark,
When men are all sleeping and no eye can mark.
Though 'clean forgotten, like a dead man out of mind,'
This lost piece of silver Thou wilt search for--and find.

Relating to the silver valley here is not my
cup of tea, I dont welcome the excess bagage
that mother of nature has given me
I dont like the fact that the color of my hair
will change, I liked the hair I had thank you
Why is it now such a VITAL importance that
we now must invest in every expensive vitiman
on the market, every slim now, lose unwanted fat,
take 30 inches off your waiste, in your own home
for 19.99? ? ? plus tax, shipipng and handling? ? ?
Signed up at the local gym, well that was a sure
thing, not to mention my monthly fee, my expensive
exersize clothing WITH a gym bag to match, and of
course now I have walking sneakers, I have jogging
sneakers, and of course I own offically my first jogging
bra, oh ladies, that is too much! ! ! !
Why is it we now must rush and do all of this asap
Do we think that maybe getting in the pearly gate
slimer is quicker? ? ? ?

Abuse
He was little at the time,
She was only a child,
But both were abused,
And had been for a while.
Their father was cruel,
Mean and heartless.
The way he hurt them,
Made it look effortless.
He locked her up,
In a room up the stair.
And left the house drunk,
Leaving her there.
He was hit from the mum,
A blow to the face.
The way they were treated,
Was an utter disgrace.
He couldn't get up,
He couldn't fight back.
For food to get stronger,
Was something he lacked.
The little girl was left,
Alone in the dark.
Cradling her arm,
On which was a mark.
Her wrist had been used,
To put out a cigarette stump.
Buring through the skin,
Leaving her with a lump.
He had been kicked,
When he was down.
Kicked for just being there,
Kicked down to the ground.
She had been someone,
For her parents alone,
To personally hurt,
When they were at home.
These children were hurt,
Outside and in.
They'd been physically abused,
And hurt right within.
Their pride had been banished,
Long, long ago.
They couldn't stand up,
And simply say, 'No! '
The children died,
Not older than three.
The boy protecting his sister,
The girl clutching her teddy.
They had bruises,
Up and down their arms.
But they had escaped,
Escaped from further harm.
I wish that I could have,
Had the courage to speak.
To tell someone of this abuse,
That happened each week.
I could have made a difference,
For this little boy and girl,
I could have made a difference,
That they could mean the whole world.
So if you know of any,
Type of abuse.
Tell the helpline to today,
Before someones life is what we loose.

Sister is
Not only
Sister...
MY
Truley girl friend...
Sister
Not only sister...
My child's...
Teacher....
Also my child hood
Teacher...
With a loving servent...
Playing partner...
Sister is
Not only sister...
Guide + Advoicer
With my life...
Sister not only
A sister
My dear mom
A youthFull mom...!
Sister not only
Sister...
My dear and dear...
Of family V.i.P
At one of
My life heart...
Dear my dear
Sister...
Your sister's
how are you...?

If you cry my sister,
I am always there to wipe out
Your tickling tears
For swallowing them in me
You are the dearest one,
Don’t think
You are alone in this world
Your brother is still alive for you
Remember me,
The moment you undergo,
The toughest circumstance of your life
Believe me, Sister
Your brother will sacrifice his life
For your sake
Oh Sister,
Don’t take the test of your brother
If really you face problems
That shatter all your hope and sweet memories,
Then close your eyes, you will feel brother near you

My father buried my sister today
My soul burns red with pain
No longer will I touch her face
Or caress her skin again
My father buried my sister today
God, what have I done wrong
To have her stolen from my arms
When my faith in you was strong
My father buried my sister today
Thank God I have another
I couldn't walk this path alone
Every breath is a struggle
My father buried my sister today
She was just 20
Searing, ripping, tearing ache
My emotions overcome me
To God above, how I pray
These words by her not repeated
My father buried my daughter today

My sister my sister,
Is not the best.
My sister my sister,
Oh give it a rest.
My sister my sister,
Stop with the drama.
My sister my sister,
Dumb as a llama.
My sister my sister,
I'm not supposed to see.
My sister my sister,
Dumb as can be.

Night is my sister, and how deep in love,
How drowned in love and weedily washed ashore,
There to be fretted by the drag and shove
At the tide's edge, I lie—these things and more:
Whose arm alone between me and the sand,
Whose voice alone, whose pitiful breath brought near,
Could thaw these nostrils and unlock this hand,
She could advise you, should you care to hear.
Small chance, however, in a storm so black,
A man will leave his friendly fire and snug
For a drowned woman's sake, and bring her back
To drip and scatter shells upon the rug.
No one but Night, with tears on her dark face,
Watches beside me in this windy place.

WHEN Sister Jane, who had produced a child,
In prayer and penance all her hours beguiled
Her sister-nuns around the lattice pressed;
On which the abbess thus her flock addressed:
Live like our sister Jane, and bid adieu
To worldly cares:--have better things in view.
YES, they replied, we sage like her shall be,
When we with love have equally been free.

Sweet sister dear
Remember those years
We cried together,
Dropped many tears
Saw the fights,
Were afraid of lights,
The bottles lined up
And the pills in our sights
Now we are older
More lives at stake
Not just our own anymore
Our kids’ care we take
All the tears we have now
The powerless feelings grown
All the damage our family did
In our adulthood now shown
Please sister dear
Don’t cry anymore
I will dry your tears
As you have done with me before
Remember I love you and I am here
Remember with us as a pair there is no more fear.

To my sister on her wedding day
I am happy to say,
You're love is peur for this man hear,
And he wont throe her love away.
They will be happy,
I know
So i am happy to say it is her wedding day.

The sunset was like a fire-sky
That truly lit up my world
Clouds were orange and yellow
Like a paintbrush making swirls
The beauty was overwhelming
But a little bit frightening as well
It raged as though with fury
As it all began to swell
The colors were also reflected
In the lake where trees surround
It was quiet as I stood mesmerized
There was barely a single sound
I saw some fellows out fishing
Their bodies in semi-dark
Nothing looked quite real
The lake looked cold and stark
I doubt that I will ever see
A sunset just like this again
The entire sky so unimaginable
In a shocking kind of blend!

Black sails, against a midnight sky,
he buried his heart on an island.
Some day...
it won't matter when,
she'll open a green bottle and
find within, a scribbled map
that shows just where he
buried himself...in despair.
It'll read, from the oceans
edge first, two steps forward and
quench your thirst...for I am a river,
disguised as a stream...for I am life,
disguised as a dream... wake me,
my love, wake me, I'll give you
a sign, of where you can find
this heart of mine...buried deep,
and buried well...
and far enough away from
the oceans swell, that not just
any one, sailing by, would know
that it was I...
Black sails, against a midnight sky,
he buried his heart on an island.
He lay there buried, for what
seemed like years, the oceans edge
soon mixed with tears, and he waited
and waited, though she never came,
and the island no longer now
looks the same...
time has eroded both beach and sand
with no more trace upon the land
of where he buried his hope,
and dream, scribbled on a message
within a bottle of green.
Black sails, against a midnight sky,
he buried his heart on an island.

Im not so sure he loves me...
Im not so sure i do...
but when im around him...
My heart tells me its true...
when im around this guy, i feel like i can fly...
so high i can touch the sky...
i get all nevous and i get all red...
i start to get a little light headed...
he talks to me...
its like a fantasy...
i dont know whats left in the world...
when he is not here to have me hold...

Give to me one more kiss.
Impart your spirit on my memory.
Chill my heart with a touch.
Ignite me with a glance.
Wrap yourself around me.
And stir my soul with a smile.
Meet me on a midnight moon.
Where we can laugh and fly.
Make a dream that soars on wings.
And kiss beneath a liquid sky.

My eyes set their gaze across the horizon
The sun is setting in late fall afternoon
Cold snap in the air as the leaves swirl about
A welcoming view is the painted pink sky
Streaks of pale blue dotted with white
Have been suddenly brushed with a soft pastel
The beauty is breathtaking, such natural artistry
I am in awe of the painted pink sky
I think of you now, how magnificent it would be
To find ultimate and much needed serenity
Wrapped up in your strong arms in loves sweet embrace
To be held by you under the painted pink sky

In school it had been important to learn
the names of battleships, diseases, museums,
kings, the internal scheme of the squid
which is called taxonomy but outside, in the fields,
it seemed most important to know the names
of sex organs: vulva, Mount Olympus,
anadromous pod and that was called soccer practice.
Beside me in Earth Science sat Debbie
until she was killed by a Volkswagen
so the rest of the year I did the experiments
alone. Say crack my fingers backwards, she whispered
while I tried to organize plastic seashells.
The earth had folded into itself many times.
Ann, Jill, Brenda, Elizabeth. Kinesis,
the golgi apparatus, the ellipsis. Give up,
go to bed, dream. Then to wake up twenty years later
after a party knowing you behaved perfectly
shamefully, the brain is threatened sea life,
astronomers predict discs of dust hold clues
to the birth of the universe and then to make tea
and telephone apologies. What was her name,
the one by the door? Expostulations of orange juice.
Purple clouds. Twice I jumped from an airplane
to forget a beautiful woman who was sleeping
with some guy instead of me who made guitars
from scratch. Handprints on an aquarium,
tissue paper. Irregular envelopes. To begin,
each player selected a game piece. She was
beautiful and drunk but not as drunk
as her dress which kept hailing cabs
even at the party. Beneath the clothing
is the skin and beneath the skin, viscera, bones
but beneath that there is just the skin
of the other side so clearly something
is unaccounted for. Green river,
lobelia, lightbulb shaped like a flame,
a chair shaped like a shoe. The last time
I landed, I forgot all I learned
throwing myself from a practice flight of stairs.
It drove me crazy, the way she smiled
at strangers and I could never be
a stranger. A thousand feet above the earth,
hanging from a handkerchief.

Sky Star…., so far….., on a peaceful night….,
Blinking…, twinkling…, with a wondrous light…,
Sky Star…., so far…., sparkling so bright….,
Shimmering…, quivering…, on a peaceful night.
Celestial flame…. Glowing with delight….,
Gleaming, flashing, glimmering white….,
Radiant spirit…., such a beautiful sight…,
Sky Star…., so far….., on a peaceful night.

The sky is low, the clouds are mean,
A travelling flake of snow
Across a barn or through a rut
Debates if it will go.
A narrow wind complains all day
How some one treated him;
Nature, like us, is sometimes caught
Without her diadem.

Let my soul, a shining tree,
Silver branches lift towards thee,
Where on a hallowed winter’s night
The clear-eyed angels may alight.
And if there should be tempests in
My spirit, let them surge like din
Of noble melodies at war;
With fervour of such blades of triumph as are
Flashed in white orisons of saints who go
On shafts of glory to the ecstasies they know.

The lateral vibrations caress me,
They leap and caress me,
They work pathetically in my favour,
They seek my financial good.
She of the spear stands present.
The gods of the underworld attend me, O Annubis,
These are they of thy company.
With a pathetic solicitude they attend me;
Undulant,
Their realm is the lateral courses.
Light!
I am up to follow thee, Pallas.
Up and out of their caresses.
You were gone up as a rocket,
Bending your passages from right to left and from left to right
In the flat projection of a spiral.
The gods of drugged sleep attend me,
Wishing me well;
I am up to follow thee, Pallas.

Has my heart gone to sleep?
Have the beehives of my dreams
stopped working, the waterwheel
of the mind run dry,
scoops turning empty,
only shadow inside?
No, my heart is not asleep.
It is awake, wide awake.
Not asleep, not dreaming—
its eyes are opened wide
watching distant signals, listening
on the rim of vast silence.

Last night I wrestled with poetry
As if a lion wrestling with its prey
I sleep poetry
I dream poetry
I walk poetry on thin line ropes
binding together steeply slopes
I make love to poetry like a new catch
On heat waiting to be let loose from its latch
So out of ten if I am bad, take a pen
And give me a score of five or a four
I constantly make love to poetry
With dramatic grammatical metaphors
The root of my poetic hunger
Is I starve myself a bit longer
In sleep I twiddle my poetic lines
Sharpen them to be as fine as a riddle
I sleep poetry
I drink poetry
Not just to quench my thirst
But to differentiate amongst
Good, Better and Best
There shall come the day
I have to say
When I will definitely call it a truce
When I have run out of poetic juice
2006 - Sylvia Chidi

Not to sleep all the night long, for pure joy,
Counting no sheep and careless of chimes
Welcoming the dawn confabulation
Of birch, her children, who discuss idly
Fanciful details of the promised coming -
Will she be wearing red, or russet, or blue,
Or pure white? - whatever she wears, glorious:
Not to sleep all the night long, for pure joy,
This is given to few but at last to me,
So that when 1 laugh and stretch and leap from bed
I shall glide downstairs, my feet brushing the carpet
In courtesy to civilized progression,
Though, did 1 wish, I could soar through the open window
And perch on a branch above, acceptable ally
Of the birds still alert, grumbling gently together.

Sleep my love, sleep.
Rest your head on my breasts
and place yourself into my keep.
Then, dream us on a mighty quest.
To a land where dragons exist.
Where we can run through mystical forests,
as we chase unicorns through the mist.
Then, on pretty balloons will float, I promise.
As through the marsh we must flee.
Toward evil knights guarding the keep,
where the buried treasure is we seek.
Before we escape on the murmuring seas.
Sleep my love, sleep.
Close your eyes and spread your wings.
There is no reason for you to weep,
for in your dreams you are king.
Publish 'Simply Me: Poems'
Publish 'From Me To You: Poems'
Paperback and e-book available on amazon.
That I have to post this upsets me:
My poems are copyright. I am sharing my
poems for you to read not for you to
post willy-nilly to a website, in
your newsletter or anywhere else with out
my permission. I am available, leave me a
message. Especially to those who change
the name of my poem and not give proper
credit. You should be ashamed!

Do you give yourself to me utterly,
Body and no-body, flesh and no-flesh
Not as a fugitive, blindly or bitterly,
But as a child might, with no other wish?
Yes, utterly.
Then I shall bear you down my estuary,
Carry you and ferry you to burial mysteriously,
Take you and receive you,
Consume you, engulf you,
In the huge cave, my belly, lave you
With huger waves continually.
And you shall cling and clamber there
And slumber there, in that dumb chamber,
Beat with my blood's beat, hear my heart move
Blindly in bones that ride above you,
Delve in my flesh, dissolved and bedded,
Through viewless valves embodied so –
Till daylight, the expulsion and awakening,
The riving and the driving forth,
Life with remorseless forceps beckoning –
Pangs and betrayal of harsh birth.

Sleep, sleep, sleep
And keep
Eyes open
To feel in heaven
I shall come
To welcome
And take in arms
To keep you warm
I shall remind
You to find me
In your presence
Without feeling tense
This is the life that we wanted
And felt so excited
The dream is realized
You look so dazed
It is reality
That has been blessed by an almighty
Let us not be carried away
But cheerfully stay

Over the edge of the purple down,
Where the single lamplight gleams,
Know ye the road to the Merciful Town
That is hard by the Sea of Dreams--
Where the poor may lay their wrongs away,
And the sick may forget to weep?
But we--pity us! Oh, pity us!
We wakeful; ah, pity us! --
We must go back with Policeman Day--
Back from the City of Sleep!
Weary they turn from the scroll and crown,
Fetter and prayer and plough--
They that go up to the Merciful Town,
For her gates are closing now.
It is their right in the Baths of Night
Body and soul to steep,
But we--pity us! ah, pity us!
We wakeful; oh, pity us!--
We must go back with Policeman Day--
Back from the City of Sleep!
Over the edge of the purple down,
Ere the tender dreams begin,
Look--we may look--at the Merciful Town,
But we may not enter in!
Outcasts all, from her guarded wall
Back to our watch we creep:
We--pity us! ah, pity us!
We wakeful; oh, pity us!--
We that go back with Policeman Day--
Back from the City of Sleep!

I would like to watch you sleeping,
which may not happen.
I would like to watch you,
sleeping. I would like to sleep
with you, to enter
your sleep as its smooth dark wave
slides over my head
and walk with you through that lucent
wavering forest of bluegreen leaves
with its watery sun & three moons
towards the cave where you must descend,
towards your worst fear
I would like to give you the silver
branch, the small white flower, the one
word that will protect you
from the grief at the center
of your dream, from the grief
at the center I would like to follow
you up the long stairway
again & become
the boat that would row you back
carefully, a flame
in two cupped hands
to where your body lies
beside me, and as you enter
it as easily as breathing in
I would like to be the air
that inhabits you for a moment
only. I would like to be that unnoticed
& that necessary.

Adam is the man
obedient son of God
placed as the favored one in Paradise
and of all the fruits
he must all eat
except
the Apple (they say it could
be an apricot
or a pear, some ways to confuse
this myth of an apple
of discord)
the source of the test
for the temptation
to eat or not to eat? that is the
question, and then comes the villain
Snake
the Seducer promising that if Adam
eats the Apple
he will know
Right from Wrong
Pleasure from Pain
Sorrow from Joy
Is this not good after all for Man
to be Enlightened? I ask.
Let us not put Eve in the picture
even then
granting that the myth is true
or is it a way of literature telling
us
Man must not know much
He must only obey
and not Use his own Mind
If i were Adam, i will do the same
Less Eve, I shall grab the apple and
chew it well, swallow it all
lick the last dropp of its pulp.
I like to be responsible for myself Now.
To know Myself
That i have committed Sin
or that i have pleased God sometimes
or that i have too
displeased Him.
The Apple
Even without the Snake I know
I shall love the taste
And happier outside the gates
of Paradise
Lots of places to go, Now,
adventures to make, which of course,
enlarges the volume of the Bible
a thicker book, more pages to read
and increase its sales.

Hullo, there Baburam – what have you got in there?
Snakes? Aha – and do you think there’s one that youcould spare
You know, I’d love to have one, but let me tell you this–
The ones that bite aren’t right for me – nor the onesthat hiss.
I’d also skip the ones that butt
As well the ones that whistle
Or the ones that slink about
Or show their fangs, or bristle.
As for eating habits, I think it would be nice
To go for ones that only take a meal of milk and rice.
I’m sure you know the kind of snake that want fromwhat I’ve said,
Do let me have one, Baburam, so I could bash itshead.
[Original: 'Baburam Shapure' (Bengali), Translated by: Satyajit Ray (the able son of Sukumar Roy)]

Hitler once brought in a rooster
In parliament his point to pester,
And then one after another
He started pulling its feathers.
After making it featherless
Threw the hapless bird amidst roar
And threw to it food-grains on floor;
It followed him as one might guess
Forgetting all inflicted pain,
Focussing on the dole of grain!
Triumphant, Hitler looked around,
And the point was made all so sound.
In democracy it's like this,
This major point should go no amiss,
Watch, first they plunder people's all
Make helpless— each Peter and Paul.
Then throw to them some succour odd,
Be a saviour almighty God!
This play, this game is on right now,
Making fool of voters somehow!
So let your wisdom be whetted,
Sharpen it if it has blunted,
If snake-infested be the House,
Get a snake-charmer elected.
_________________________________
Reflections |09.04.2019|
Topic: change, democracy, dictator, warning

burning sun rays in hot summer wither heat land
in desert rainless daily sun rays merciless scold sand
scorpion snake bask among gold sand grains grand
Copyright © Terence George Craddock

In the grass
a snake is dancing
hide li'l mouse!

He glides so swiftly
Back into the grass-
Gives me the courtesy of road
To let me pass,
That I am half ashamed
To seek a stone
To kill him.

Well, mate, you’ve asked about a fellow
You met to-day, in a black-and-yellow
Chain-gang suit, with a peddler’s pack,
Or with some such burden, strapped to his back.
Did you meet him square? No, passed you by?
Well, if you had, and had looked in his eye,
You’d have felt for your irons then and there;
For the light in his eye is a madman’s glare.
Ay, mad, poor fellow! I know him well,
And if you’re not sleepy just yet, I’ll tell
His story,—a strange one as ever you heard
Or read; but I’ll vouch for it, every word.
You just wait a minute, mate: I must see
How that damper’s doing, and make some tea.
You smoke? That’s good; for there’s plenty of weed
In that wallaby skin. Does your horse feed
In the hobbles? Well, he’s got good feed here,
And my own old bush mare won’t interfere.
Done with that meat? Throw it there to the dogs,
And fling on a couple of banksia logs.
And now for the story. That man who goes
Through the bush with the pack and the convict’s clothes
Has been mad for years; but he does no harm,
And our lonely settlers feel no alarm
When they see or meet him. Poor Dave Sloane
Was a settler once, and a friend of my own.
Some eight years back, in the spring of the year,
Dave came from Scotland, and settled here.
A splendid young fellow he was just then,
And one of the bravest and truest men
That I ever met: he was kind as a woman
To all who needed a friend, and no man—
Not even a convict—met with his scorn,
For David Sloane was a gentleman born.
Ay, friend, a gentleman, though it sounds queer:
There’s plenty of blue blood flowing out here,
And some younger sons of your “upper ten”
Can be met with here, first-rate bushmen.
Why, friend, I—Bah! curse that dog! you see
This talking so much has affected me.
Well, Sloane came here with an axe and a gun;
He bought four miles of a sandal-wood run.
This bush at that time was a lonesome place,
So lonesome the sight of a white man’s face
Was a blessing, unless it came at night,
And peered in your hut, with the cunning fright
Of a runaway convict; and even they
Were welcome, for talk’s sake, while they could stay.
Dave lived with me here for a while, and learned
The tricks of the bush,—how the snare was laid
In the wallaby track, how traps were made,
How ’possums and kangaroo rats were killed,
And when that was learned, I helped him to build
From mahogany slabs a good bush hut,
And showed him how sandal-wood logs were cut.
I lived up there with him days and days,
For I loved the lad for his honest ways.
I had only one fault to find: at first
Dave worked too hard; for a lad who was nursed,
As he was, in idleness, it was strange
How he cleared that sandal-wood off his range.
From the morning light till the light expired
He was always working, he never tired;
Till at length I began to think his will
Was too much settled on wealth, and still
When I looked at the lad’s brown face, and eye
Clear open, my heart gave such thought the lie.
But one day—for he read my mind—he laid
His hand on my shoulder: “Don’t be afraid,”
Said he, “that I’m seeking alone for pelf.
I work hard, friend; but ’tis not for myself.”
And he told me then, in his quiet tone,
Of a girl in Scotland, who was his own,—
His wife,—’twas for her: ’twas all he could say,
And his clear eye brimmed as he turned away.
After that he told me the simple tale:
They had married for love, and she was to sail
For Australia when he wrote home and told
The oft-watched-for story of finding gold.
In a year he wrote, and his news was good:
He had bought some cattle and sold his wood.
He said, “Darling, I’ve only a hut,—but come.”
Friend, a husband’s heart is a true wife’s home;
And he knew she’d come. Then he turned his hand
To make neat the house, and prepare the land
For his crops and vines; and he made that place
Put on such a smiling and homelike face,
That when she came, and he showed her round
His sandal-wood and his crops in the ground,
And spoke of the future, they cried for joy,
The husband’s arm clasping his wife and boy.
Well, friend, if a little of heaven’s best bliss
Ever comes from the upper world to this,
It came into that manly bushman’s life,
And circled him round with the arms of his wife.
God bless that bright memory! Even to me,
A rough, lonely man, did she seem to be,
While living, an angel of God’s pure love,
And now I could pray to her face above.
And David he loved her as only a man
With a heart as large as was his heart can.
I wondered how they could have lived apart,
For he was her idol, and she his heart.
Friend, there isn’t much more of the tale to tell:
I was talking of angels awhile since. Well,
Now I’ll change to a devil,—ay, to a devil!
You needn’t start: if a spirit of evil
Ever came to this world its hate to slake
One mankind, it came as a Dukite Snake.
Like? Like the pictures you’ve seen of Sin,
A long red snake,—as if what was within
Was fire that gleamed through his glistening skin.
And his eyes!—if you could go down to hell
And come back to your fellows here and tell
What the fire was like, you could find no thing,
Here below on the earth, or up in the sky,
To compare it to but a Dukite’s eye!
Now, mark you, these Dukites don’t go alone:
There’s another near when you see but one;
And beware you of killing that one you see
Without finding the other; for you may be
More than twenty miles from the spot that night,
When camped, but you’re tracked by the lone Dukite,
That will follow your trail like Death or Fate,
And kill you as sure as you killed its mate!
Well, poor Dave Sloane had his young wife here
Three months,—’twas just this time of the year.
He had teamed some sandal-wood to the Vasse,
And was homeward bound, when he saw in the grass
A long red snake: he had never been told
Of the Dukite’s ways,—he jumped to the road,
And smashed its flat head with the bullock-goad!
He was proud of the red skin, so he tied
Its tail to the cart, and the snake’s blood dyed
The bush on the path he followed that night.
He was early home, and the dead Dukite
Was flung at the door to be skinned next day.
At sunrise next morning he started away
To hunt up his cattle. A three hours’ ride
Brought him back: he gazed on his home with pride
And joy in his heart; he jumped from his horse
And entered—to look on his young wife’s corse,
And his dead child clutching his mother’s clothes
As in fright; and there, as he gazed, arose
From her breast, where ’twas resting, the gleaming head
Of the terrible Dukite, as if it said,
“I’ve had vengeance, my foe: you took all I had.”
And so had the snake—David Sloane was mad!
I rode to his hut just by chance that night,
And there on the threshold the clear moonlight
Showed the two snakes dead. I pushed in the door
With an awful feeling of coming woe:
The dead was stretched on the moonlit floor,
The man held the hand of his wife,—his pride,
His poor life’s treasure,—and crouched by her side.
O God! I sank with the weight of the blow.
I touched and called him: he heeded me not,
So I dug her grave in a quiet spot,
And lifted them both,—her boy on her breast,—
And laid them down in the shade to rest.
Then I tried to take my poor friend away,
But he cried so woefully, “Let me stay
Till she comes again!” that I had no heart
To try to persuade him then to part
From all that was left to him here,—her grave;
So I stayed by his side that night, and, save
One heart-cutting cry, he uttered no sound,—
O God! that wail—like the wail of a hound!
’Tis six long years since I heard that cry,
But ’twill ring in my ears till the day I die.
Since that fearful night no one has heard
Poor David Sloane utter sound or word.
You have seen to-day how he always goes:
He’s been given that suit of convict’s clothes
By some prison officer. On his back
You noticed a load like a peddler’s pack?
Well, that’s what he lives for: when reason went,
Still memory lived, for the days are spent
In searching for Dukites; and year by year
That bundle of skins is growing. ’Tis clear
That the Lord out of evil some good still takes;
For he’s clearing this bush of the Dukite snakes.

A snake caught a fish
Then it took the fish ashore
To eat the pond's fish!

Tiny little snake
Not fully awake it crawls
Oh my! Spring is here!
Μικρό φιδάκι
αγουροξυπνημένο
Ω! Η άνοιξη!

There is a flag on the door, and joy left on the floor,
A woman sobs all day long crying to the tune of an old song
A voice cries “Where is he, Where is he? ”
This voice haunts the woman and emphasizes all her wants
There is letter in the mail that tells the tail
She opens the letter asking….
“where is he, where is he.”
There is a baby cold and lonely, lonely to come
With tears that are not formed yet, nor even a thought
In a cradle to the side longing for the second face……
The letter answered the woman………..
“Your husband died a glorious death, and lived a humble life,
And yet now we grieve to see that this man is dead”
How will the child be fed?

What did I do, sonny, in the Great World War?
Well, I learned to peel potatoes and to scrub the barrack floor.
I learned to push a barrow and I learned to swing a pick,
I learned to turn my toes out, and to make my eyeballs click.
I learned the road to Folkestone, and I watched the English shore,
Go down behind the skyline, as I thought, for evermore.
And the Blighty boats went by us and the harbour hove in sight,
And they landed us and sorted us and marched us "by the right".
"Quick march!" across the cobbles, by the kids who rang along
Singing "Appoo?" "Spearmant" "Shokolah?" through dingy old Boulogne;
By the widows and the nurses and the niggers and Chinese,
And the gangs of smiling Fritzes, as saucy as you please.
I learned to ride as soldiers ride from Etaps to the Line,
For days and nights in cattle trucks, packed in like droves of swine.
I learned to curl and kip it on a foot of muddy floor,
And to envy cows and horses that have beds of beaucoup straw.
I learned to wash in shell holes and to shave myself in tea,
While the fragments of a mirror did a balance on my knee.
I learned to dodge the whizz-bangs and the flying lumps of lead,
And to keep a foot of earth between the sniper and my head.
I learned to keep my haversack well filled with buckshee food,
To take the Army issue and to pinch what else I could.
I learned to cook Maconochie with candle-ends and string,
With "four-by-two" and sardine-oil and any God-dam thing.
I learned to use my bayonet according as you please
For a breadknife or a chopper or a prong for toasting cheese.
I learned "a first field dressing" to serve my mate and me
As a dish-rag and a face-rag and a strainer for our tea.
I learned to gather souvenirs that home I hoped to send,
And hump them round for months and months and dump them in the end.
I learned to hunt for vermin in the lining of my shirt,
To crack them with my finger-nail and feel the beggars spirt;
I learned to catch and crack them by the dozen and the score
And to hunt my shirt tomorrow and to find as many more.
I learned to sleep by snatches on the firestep of a trench,
And to eat my breakfast mixed with mud and Fritz's heavy stench.
I learned to pray for Blighty ones and lie and squirm with fear,
When Jerry started strafing and the Blighty ones were near.
I learned to write home cheerful with my heart a lump of lead
With the thought of you and mother, when she heard that I was dead.
And the only thing like pleasure over there I ever knew,
Was to hear my pal come shouting, "There's a parcel, mate, for you."
So much for what I did do - now for what I have not done:
Well, I never kissed a French girl and I never killed a Hun,
I never missed an issue of tobacco, pay, or rum,
I never made a friend and yet I never lacked a chum.
I never borrowed money, and I never lent - but once
(I can learn some sorts of lessons though I may be borne a dunce).
I never used to grumble after breakfast in the Line
That the eggs were cooked too lightly or the bacon cut too fine.
I never told a sergeant just exactly what I thought,
I never did a pack-drill, for I never quite got caught.
I never punched a Red-Cap's nose (be prudent like your Dad),
But I'd like as many sovereigns as the times I've wished I had.
I never stopped a whizz-bang, though I've stopped a lot of mud,
But the one that Fritz sent over with my name on was a dud.
I never played the hero or walked about on top,
I kept inside my funk hole when the shells began to drop.
Well, Tommy Jones's father must be made of different stuff:
I never asked for trouble - the issue was enough.
So I learned to live and lump it in the lovely land of war,
Where the face of nature seems a monstrous septic sore,
Where the bowels of earth of earth hang open, like the guts of something slain,
And the rot and wreck of everything are churned and churned again;
Where all is done in darkness and where all is still in day,
Where living men are buried and the dead unburied lay;
Where men inhabit holes like rats, and only rats live there;
Where cottage stood and castle once in days before La Guerre;
Where endless files of soldiers thread the everlasting way,
By endless miles of duckboards, through endless walls of clay;
Where life is one hard labour, and a soldiers gets his rest
When they leave him in the daisies with a puncture in his chest;
Where still the lark in summer pours her warble from the skies,
And underneath, unheeding, lie the blank upstaring eyes.
And I read the Blighty papers, where the warriors of the pen
Tell of "Christmas in the trenches" and "The Spirit of our men";
And I saved the choicest morsels and I read them to my chum,
And he muttered, as he cracked a louse and wiped it off his thumb:
"May a thousand chats from Belgium crawl under their fingers as they write;
May they dream they're not exempted till they faint with mortal fright;
May the fattest rats in Dickebusch race over them in bed;
May the lies they've written choke them like a gas cloud till they're dead;
May the horror and the torture and the things they never tell
(For they only write to order) be reserved for them in Hell!"
You'd like to be a soldier and go to France some day?
By all the dead in Delville Wood, by all the nights I lay
Between our lines and Fritz's before they brought me in;
By this old wood-and-leather stump, that once was flesh and skin;
By all the lads who crossed with me but never crossed again,
By all the prayers their mothers and their sweethearts prayed in vain,
Before the things that were that day should ever more befall
May God in common pity destroy us one and all!

He was a brave soldier he died young and brave
And for more than six decades he lay in his grave
And still at the dawning of each war memorial day
At his grave site a young bugler the last post does play.
Known as the Unknown Soldier one without a name
Still he had a mum and a dad just the same
And when he did not return home when the fighting was done
They grieved at their loss and they wept for their son.
The war to end all wars of all wars 'tis said
But more wars are fought and we have more war dead
And at the grave of the unknown soldier the last post is played
And to honour the war dead another parade.
Old war men do tell us young soldiers fight and die
For freedom and liberty that is a lie
They went to war when young they are now old and gray
Some grow old not wiser some are known to say.
That they were fighting for freedom and justice they believed to be true
And they were quite gallant to give them their due
But many deprived of their human rights in the World of today
And that does seem a very sad thing for to say.
With heads bowed old men showing their years in gray
At the grave of the Unknown Soldier at the dawn of the day
In silence do listen as a young bugler the last post does play
For one who fought and died in a war far away.

I am a Roman soldier.
I choke on the dust and peer ahead.
There are only more soldiers and more marching.
The sun gleams from shields slung over the backs of my comrades
and our swords clank at our sides.
Only three weeks into the Germania campaign
and the Senate still favors the Brutii.
Still, General Augustus favors blood,
and so we march.
I am a Roman soldier and I fight for Rome and for glory.
My javelins tangle and I stop to adjust them.
Their one-use tips were digging in my back.
Feet continue to march past and I smell sweat and dirt.
There are murmurs of conversation
About the last town we sacked.
About the screams and the blood,
and how the Armenians would rather fight
then submit to Roman power.
I am a Roman soldier.
I grew up in Croton, a large town South of Rome.
My mother weaved cloth for the governor,
the white and green of the Brutii.
They claim they first settled Rome,
Their ancestor is Brutus, survivor of Troy
relation of the great Romulus.
My father was a proud Brutii
and his eyes sparkled at the name.
“Brutus, ” he said, “started this family with honor
and with honor died.”
Then two weeks passed,
and he died at Carthage.
I am a Roman soldier and I fight for Rome.
I pretend to inspect my shield as legions pass.
A Centurion calls for water and boasts
“It’s not to drink but to wipe off barbarian blood! ”
We Romans are tough and mighty
and will rule the world with Strength and Honor
There’s a problem with a leather strap
and I listen to the pounding feet.
I saw blood splattered on many.
Dried and brown.
I am a Roman soldier.
My mother’s voice rings in my head,
“Come back with your shield, or upon it.”
I wonder if my blood will be dried
and brown on someone’s feet some day.
I shake off the thought and raise my head.
The wind stirs my hair.
With it comes the rumble of cavalry.
The General will meet with us tonight.
Tomorrow we lay siege.
He had said we will do great things,
and that neither cities nor hordes could stop us.
We will live in glory and there will be songs about us
sung through the ages.
I am a Roman soldier and I am sick of fighting.
The army surges ahead and I watch it.
Shimmering and moving with a rhythm.
Thousands of blades of grass tossed by the wind.
The cavalry comes neatly alongside;
loud voices ring out in greeting.
I sigh and heft my shield,
Don my helmet and check my sword.
I fight because I have to,
I fight because the world would not have it otherwise,
The world could not stand to have one less of me,
I am a Roman soldier.

My soldier boy has crossed the sea
To fight the foeman;
But he'll come back to make of me
And honest woman.
So I am singing all day long,
Despite blood-shedding;
For though I know he's done me wrong,
We'll end by wedding.
My soldier boy is home again,
So bold and scathless;
But oh, my heart is numb with pain
Because he's faithless.
He's brought with him a French Mam'selle;
They plan a marriage;
Maybe I'll go - no one will know
Of my miscarriage.
My soldier boy has made his choice,
She'll hold him to it;
I tell myself that I rejoice,
May he not rue it.
But oh, that starry month of May,
Love-words wild spoken!
I stand alone and make no moan...
My heart is broken.

"Soldier, soldier come from the wars,
Why don't you march with my true love?"
"We're fresh from off the ship an' 'e's maybe give the slip,
An' you'd best go look for a new love."
New love!  True love!
Best go look for a new love,
The dead they cannot rise, an' you'd better dry your eyes,
An' you'd best go look for a new love.
"Soldier, soldier come from the wars,
What did you see o' my true love?"
"I seed 'im serve the Queen in a suit o' rifle-green,
An' you'd best go look for a new love."
"Soldier, soldier come from the wars,
Did ye see no more o' my true love?"
"I seed 'im runnin' by when the shots begun to fly --
But you'd best go look for a new love."
"Soldier, soldier come from the wars,
Did aught take 'arm to my true love?"
"I couldn't see the fight, for the smoke it lay so white --
An' you'd best go look for a new love."
"Soldier, soldier come from the wars,
I'll up an' tend to my true love!"
"'E's lying on the dead with a bullet through 'is 'ead,
An' you'd best go look for a new love."
"Soldier, soldier come from the wars,
I'll down an' die with my true love!"
"The pit we dug'll 'ide 'im an' the twenty men beside 'im --
An' you'd best go look for a new love."
"Soldier, soldier come from the wars,
Do you bring no sign from my true love?"
"I bring a lock of 'air that 'e allus used to wear,
An' you'd best go look for a new love."
"Soldier, soldier come from the wars,
O then I know it's true I've lost my true love!"
"An' I tell you truth again -- when you've lost the feel o' pain
You'd best take me for your true love."
True love!  New love!
Best take 'im for a new love,
The dead they cannot rise, an' you'd better dry your eyes,
An' you'd best take 'im for your true love.

When the grass was closely mown,
Walking on the lawn alone,
In the turf a hole I found
And hid a soldier underground.
Spring and daisies came apace;
Grasses hid my hiding-place;
Grasses run like a green sea
O'er the lawn up to my knee.
Under grass alone he lies,
Looking up with leaden eyes,
Scarlet coat and pointed gun,
To the stars and to the sun.
When the grass is ripe like grain,
When the scythe is stoned again,
When the lawn is shaven clear,
Then my hole shall reappear.
I shall find him, never fear,
I shall find my grenadier;
But, for all that's gone and come,
I shall find my soldier dumb.
He has lived, a little thing,
In the grassy woods of spring;
Done, if he could tell me true,
Just as I should like to do.
He has seen the starry hours
And the springing of the flowers;
And the fairy things that pass
In the forests of the grass.
In the silence he has heard
Talking bee and ladybird,
And the butterfly has flown
O'er him as he lay alone.
Not a word will he disclose,
Not a word of all he knows.
I must lay him on the shelf,
And make up the tale myself.

'Deny your God! ' they ringed me with their spears;
Blood-crazed were they, and reeking from the strife;
Hell-hot their hate, and venom-fanged their sneers,
And one man spat on me and nursed a knife.
And there was I, sore wounded and alone,
I, the last living of my slaughtered band.
Oh sinister the sky, and cold as stone!
In one red laugh of horror reeled the land.
And dazed and desperate I faced their spears,
And like a flame out-leaped that naked knife,
And like a serpent stung their bitter jeers:
'Deny your God, and we will give you life.'
Deny my God! Oh life was very sweet!
And it is hard in youth and hope to die;
And there my comrades dear lay at my feet,
And in that blear of blood soon must I lie.
And yet... I almost laughed -  it seemed so odd,
For long and long had I not vainly tried
To reason out and body forth my God,
And prayed for light, and doubted -  and denied:
Denied the Being I could not conceive,
Denied a life-to-be beyond the grave....
And now they ask me, who do not believe,
Just to deny, to voice my doubt, to save
This life of mine that sings so in the sun,
The bloom of youth yet red upon my cheek,
My only life! -  O fools! 'tis easy done,
I will deny... and yet I do not speak.
'Deny your God! ' their spears are all agleam,
And I can see their eyes with blood-lust shine;
Their snarling voices shrill into a scream,
And, mad to slay, they quiver for the sign.
Deny my God! yes, I could do it well;
Yet if I did, what of my race, my name?
How they would spit on me, these dogs of hell!
Spurn me, and put on me the brand of shame.
A white man's honour! what of that, I say?
Shall these black curs cry 'Coward' in my face?
They who would perish for their gods of clay -
Shall I defile my country and my race?
My country! what's my country to me now?
Soldier of Fortune, free and far I roam;
All men are brothers in my heart, I vow;
The wide and wondrous world is all my home.
My country! reverent of her splendid Dead,
Her heroes proud, her martyrs pierced with pain:
For me her puissant blood was vainly shed;
For me her drums of battle beat in vain,
And free I fare, half-heedless of her fate:
No faith, no flag I owe -  then why not seek
This last loop-hole of life? Why hesitate?
I will deny... and yet I do not speak.
'Deny your God! ' their spears are poised on high,
And tense and terrible they wait the word;
And dark and darker glooms the dreary sky,
And in that hush of horror no thing stirred.
Then, through the ringing terror and sheer hate
Leaped there a vision to me -  Oh, how far!
A face, Her face... through all my stormy fate
A joy, a strength, a glory and a star.
Beneath the pines, where lonely camp-fires gleam,
In seas forlorn, amid the deserts drear,
How I had gladdened to that face of dream!
And never, never had it seemed so dear.
O silken hair that veils the sunny brow!
O eyes of grey, so tender and so true!
O lips of smiling sweetness! must I now
For ever and for ever go from you?
Ah, yes, I must... for if I do this thing,
How can I look into your face again?
Knowing you think me more than half a king,
I with my craven heart, my honour slain.
No! no! my mind's made up. I gaze above,
Into that sky insensate as a stone;
Not for my creed, my country, but my Love
Will I stand up and meet my death alone.
Then though it be to utter dark I sink,
The God that dwells in me is not denied;
'Best' triumphs over 'Beast', -  and so I think
Humanity itself is glorified....
'And now, my butchers, I embrace my fate.
Come! let my heart's blood slake the thirsty sod.
Curst be the life you offer! Glut your hate!
Strike! Strike, you dogs! I'll not deny my God.'
I saw the spears that seemed a-leap to slay,
All quiver earthward at the headman's nod;
And in a daze of dream I heard him say:
'Go, set him free who serves so well his God! '

He is known to the sun-white Majesties
Who stand at the gates of dawn.
He is known to the cloud-borne company
Whose souls but late have gone.
Like wind-flung stars through lattice bars
They throng to greet their own,
With voice of flame they sound his name
Who died to us unknown.
He is hailed by the time-crowned brotherhood,
By the Dauntless of Marathon,
By Raymond, Godfrey and Lion Heart
Whose dreams he carried on.
His name they call through the heavenly hall
Unheard by earthly ear,
He is claimed by the famed in Arcady
Who knew no title here.
Oh faint was the lamp of Sirius
And dim was the Milky Way.
Oh far was the floor of Paradise
From the soil where the soldier lay.
Oh chill and stark was the crimson dark
Where huddled men lay deep;
His comrades all denied his call
Long had they lain in sleep.
Oh strange how the lamp of Sirius
Drops low to the dazzled eyes,
Oh strange how the steel-red battlefields
Are floors of Paradise.
Oh strange how the ground with never a sound
Swings open, tier on tier,
And standing there in the shining air
Are the friends he cherished here.
They are known to the sun-shod sentinels
Who circle the morning's door,
They are led by a cloud-bright company
Through paths unseen before.
Like blossoms blown, their souls have flown
Past war and reeking sod,
In the book unbound their names are found
They are known in the courts of God!

A heart's sometimes like an arrow
That gets lost on its long turning on way
Or a flying high clouded lonesome sparrow
That not for long in the forest can stay
The seedlings of the passionate going songs
That grows on the heart to each sparkling give
And each new aspiring passion belongs
In its fulsome ways there to onward live
The colors of the truest summer blossom
The reddish with the pink shades between
The beauty of moments that kindle love's thought
Delicate and decent where roots are from
Each true compartment that can not be seen
In asking questions what love is and ought

708
I sometimes drop it, for a Quick—
The Thought to be alive—
Anonymous Delight to know—
And Madder—to conceive—
Consoles a Woe so monstrous
That did it tear all Day,
Without an instant's Respite—
'Twould look too far—to Die—

Sometimes I just sit quietly
and put my mind in neutral gear.
Set my imagination free
and wait for visions to appear
The visions which inspire me
to pick my pencil up and write.
About the dreamscapes I can see,
which I describe in black and white.
Though those who read my poetry
use their imagination to
visualise quite easily.
The scenes I try to share with you.
Sometimes I fail, sometimes succeed
in entertaining all who read.
24-Dec-07

Sometimes I pray before I sleep;
Sometimes I pray, the lord; my soul to keep,
Sometimes I pray.....
Sometimes I pray in the morning;
Sometimes I pray for those in mourning,
Sometimes I pray.....
Sometimes I pray for rain;
Sometimes I pray for nomore pain,
Sometimes I pray.....
Sometimes I pray before i eat;
Sometimes I pray for good bread and meat,
Sometimes I pray.....
Sometimes I pray, my baby; that you'll stay;
But only sometimes for these things do I pray,
For I talk to my Lord everyday...

Sometimes I wonder why I feel I
what I feel
whether it is pain, sadness,
joy or madness
Why must I feel it all so deeply
emotions on a never ending
circle filled with blue and gray
Light trickling in at its own
convenience to play
Is this the destiny for which we
create our won existence or can
we change the circles to squares
Triangles or octagons
with a brighter beginnings and
visible ends
A life with meaning
pleasurable and rewarding
Without oppression, suggestion
or reprimand
Is this the reality of the
Conclusion of our lives
or merely the beginning of
destiny.

Sometimes, I'm a little rude, but just sometimes
Sometimes, I guess I can be creative, but just sometimes
Sometimes, I feel on top of the world, but only sometimes
Sometimes, I feel like I'm all alone, but only sometimes
Sometimes, my life is spiraling out of control, but really, sometimes
Sometimes, my heart, I swear stops beating, but then again, sometimes
Sometimes, my heart is so full it could burt, but just sometimes
Sometimes, I feel like I've got it under control, but only sometimes
Sometimes, I truly know you love me, but just sometimes
But, my love, with all of my heart, mind, and soul. Forever and for always, I'll always love you

sometimes you just dont want to talk to anyone
sometimes you dont want to hear anything
sometimes you cant do anything right
sometimes you dont want to feel anything
sometimes all you feel is pain
sometimes you dont want to see anything
sometimes you dont want anybody to look at you
sometimes you want to be alone
sometimes you dont want to live
sometimes you just cant take life anymore
sometimes you just want it to end
sometimes you just want to stop
sometimes........ is all the time for me

Sometimes there are no words to say
why a heart should feel this way.
No reason to even question why
Just be still, don't even try.
Sometimes thinking holds no thought
Life's just a net in which we're caught
No use in struggling to be free
We cannot plan our destiny
Sometimes we just have to listen
and just go by our intuition
No need to try and justify
A love we simply can't deny

sometimes we must
get hurt in order
to grow,
we must
fail in order
to know that.
sometimes
our visions
clear only after
our eyes
are washed
away with tears...

GLOUCESTER, AUGUST, 1720
The wind it wailed, the wind it moaned,
And the white caps flecked the sea;
"An' I would to God," the skipper groaned,
"I had not my boy with me!
Snug in the stern-sheets, little John
Laughed as the scud swept by;
But the skipper's sunburnt cheeks grew wan
As he watched the wicked sky.
"Would he were at his mother's side!"
And the skipper's eyes were dim.
"Good Lord in heaven, if ill betide,
What would become of him!
"For me--my muscles are as steel,
For me let hap what may;
I might make shift upon the keel
Until the break o' day.
"But he, he is so weak and small,
So young, scarce learned to stand--
O pitying Father of us all,
I trust him in Thy hand!
"For Thou, who makest from on high
A sparrow's fall--each one!--
Surely, O Lord, thou'lt have an eye
On Alec Yeaton's son!"
Then, helm hard-port; right straight he sailed
Towards the headland light:
The wind it moaned, the wind it wailed,
And black, black fell the night.
Then burst a storm to make one quail
Though housed from winds and waves--
They who could tell about that gale
Must rise from watery graves!
Sudden it came, as sudden went;
Ere half the night was sped,
The winds were hushed, the waves were spent,
And the stars shone overhead.
Now, as the morning mist grew thin,
The folk on Gloucester shore
Saw a little figure floating in
Secure, on a broken oar!
Up rose the cry, "A wreck! a wreck!
Pull, mates, and waste no breath!"--
They knew it, though 't was but a speck
Upon the edge of death!
Long did they marvel in the town
At God his strange decree,
That let the stalwart skipper drown
And the little child go free!

A dad, a son,
One life, one love,
A road, all alone,
One last strife, from above.
Dad's ticket has been bought,
Dad's heart has been shot.
Unfair, son cries,
Dad dries.
Shaky hands rub son's face,
With embrace,
Dad whispers words,
In son's ear.
Another tear of the son falls,
On dad's palm vanishing with rainfalls.
Can not breathe easy,
Blood flows from dad's body.
Dad smiles and looks his son,
As his hand falls on the ground.
Eyes stay glassy and empty,
A tear dropp stays still on dad's eyelash.
Tears in son's eyes,
Dad slowly dies,
In weak son's hands.
By the road purple lilies smile,
Red roses seem to die.
Son takes a sweet lilie
Lies it in his father's hand,
And whispers slowly;
'I know, I know, me too dad'.
Last dad's words;
Son, I am sorry,
I never said,
But I......

these tears of joy,
are for the first time that i saw you
my beatiful baby boy,
i never thought this love i would find,
for what i feel for you is so deep inside,
when i see your face i see mine,
when i look into your eyes i can see the sun shine,
no matter how hard times may get,
just remember that im here for you dont ever forget,
for you are my hart my strenght my all,
when ever you need me just give me a call,
for i will always be here for you until the end,
because im more than just a father im also your friend.
Copyright ©2009  Jose Murguia
dedicated to my son: nicholas anthony murguia i love u always!

for my mother
I am clueless how brave you are
while conceiving me as mysterious  infinitesimal cell at first
floating inside your excruciating underwater womb
waiting patiently the approaching 12th day of December 1979
and the upcoming fearful twin of all birth -
the tragic death
I can't imagine the motherly sacrifice
the pain upon laboring me
as your first-born child,
mixed with excitement and worries
grasping in your nerves when you're about to  wean
my breathing away from your lungs
by letting me to breath independently
striving on my own
Then you hear my baby cry
with initial innocent tears
welcoming the dramatic weeping years ahead
as if a loud scream of cowardice
as if  a pre-visualization the encumbrance of
well-manifested, approach-avoidance mundane journey
the unavoidable path of all mortals
and it all begin in disperate home
our  inherent home
eventually becomes my self-evaluated penitence home
where once you lived seemingly alone
Your sacrifices become mine
as we begin to conjoin the sorrows
the springboard of our pensive tears
of sufferings of hardships
forcibly push me up prematurely to combat
against hard-to-bear emotional upheavals
I never complain that I should be aborted while
clinging obliviously in an umbilical cord
nor aspiring to be a murdered fetus thru
unintentional justifiable miscarriage
I never grief about my placental fate
as i regret not that you are my mother
This is my existence
I believe in creation as pro-life advocate
no need to question Creator's omnipotent hand
the oxygen-provider, the life giver
the wisdom bestower so I can conciously recognize
the emergence of my peculiar individuality
to fathom the mother and son, son and mother tandems
the most awesome and inspiring bonds
of all human lifelong relationships
firmly links and stands together
since time immemorial

'
stately tall you meekly stand
on your finger the signet band
for my sake you shunned your crown
for my breath your devotion fierce
you gave for me your sword and squire
your hospitality did never tire
proud brothers in battle or play
companionly we went about each day
in your shadow I had no care
my home's cupboards were never bare
song and merriment never missed
hunger a stranger to my lips
your place at court set second to mine
your heart pure - best fruit of the vine
your eyes reflect esteem so dear
no man's affection held so near
O gallant Prince in battle slain
my soul cries out for you in pain
why you've set Saul's crown on my head -
a long-held secret I shan't covet
My lord, could one ever repay;
the debt of friendship's love dismay?
to live this life as noble and true
to generously care and give as you
Prince of the Realm, if you could hear
the Scroll of the Upright, loud and clear
in the Song of the Bow proclaimed
praise of our filial bond inscribed.
'

1
Bright shadows of true Rest! some shoots of bliss,
Heaven once a week;
The next world's gladness prepossest in this;
A day to seek;
Eternity in time; the steps by which
We Climb above all ages; Lamps that light
Man through his heap of dark days; and the rich,
And full redemption of the whole week's flight.
2
The Pulleys unto headlong man; time's bower;
The narrow way;
Transplanted Paradise; God's walking hour;
The Cool o'th' day;
The Creatures' _Jubilee_; God's parle with dust;
Heaven here; Man on the hills of Myrrh, and flowers;
Angels descending; the Returns of Trust;
A Gleam of glory, after six-days'-showers.
3
The Church's love-feasts; Time's Prerogative,
And Interest
Deducted from the whole; The Combs, and hive,
And home of rest.
The milky way chalked out with suns; a clue
That guides through erring hours; and in full story
A taste of Heav'n on earth; the pledge, and cue
Of a full feast: And the Out Courts of glory.

Something has gone wrong with meaning of words,
'Sun' and 'Son' beautiful creation of lords,
Both represent energy having sharpness of swords,
Both are crucial for survival and existence of world,
Son is embodiment of energy and power,
Darkness disappears when sun rays appear,
All worship Sun god and offer prayer
Light may appear through clouds from layer
Son is source of great hope and despair,
Damage caused may be more and beyond repair,
Sun renders service which we can't compare,
Rising daily from east and non appearance rare,
Parent pray for sun to have light in home,
Worshiping many Gods and visiting Rome
Hoping lamp in huts to light and shine,
Praying for son to almighty and divine,
Sun may have power with scorching heat,
Son may also show some kind of daring feat,
Each may be scoring and beating record,
One may prove……………………..
Sun may hide face in dark night,
Parents may cry for son during day light,
Daily scuffles on with wordy fight,
Whom do we blame for want of light?
Many may be blessed with intelligent son,
They should always rejoice with simple reason
Greed may run high with aim only gain,
Parent should not keep that only aim
Many parents may not come out and openly speak,
Dryness and worry on face and future seems bleak,
Both are welcome in life and are so dear,
No parent may prefer bad words to hear
We can't afford for loss of any one
Fate may not be same as faced by everyone
The irony of fact remains almost same in nature
We should not blame anybody in near future
Is it an end of life or start of the game?
Do the children take on for simple fame?
Will situation remain for all times to come?
Will they not blame and refuse to welcome

The North Star whispers: "You are one
Of those whose course no chance can change.
You blunder, but are not undone,
Your spirit-task is fixed and strange.
"When here you walk, a bloodless shade,
A singer all men else forget.
Your chants of hammer, forge and spade
Will move the prarie-village yet.
"That young, stiff-necked, reviling town
Beholds your fancies on her walls,
And paints them out or tears them down,
Or bars them from her feasting halls.
"Yet shall the fragments still remain;
Yet shall remain some watch-tower strong
That ivy-vines will not disdain,
Haunted and trembling with your song.
"Your flambeau in the dusk shall burn,
Flame high in storms, flame white and clear;
Your ghost in gleaming robes return
And burn a deathless incense here."

Night fell over North Lebanon and snow was covering the villages surrounded by the Kadeesha Valley, giving the fields and prairies the appearance of a great sheet of parchment upon which the furious Nature was recording her many deeds. Men came home from the streets while silence engulfed the night.
In a lone house near those villages lived a woman who sat by her fireside spinning wool, and at her side was her only child, staring now at the fire and then at his mother.
A terrible roar of thunder shook the house and the little boy shook with fright. He threw his arms about his mother, seeking protection from Nature in her affection. She took him to her bosom and kissed him; then she say him on her lap and said, "Do not fear, my son, for Nature is but comparing her great power to man's weakness. There is a Supreme Being beyond the falling snow and the heavy clouds and the blowing wind, and He knows the needs of the earth, for He made it; and He looks upon the weak with merciful eyes.
"Be brave, my boy. Nature smiles in Spring and laughs in Summer and yawns in Autumn, but now she is weeping; and with her tears she waters life, hidden under the earth.
"Sleep, my dear child; your father is viewing us from Eternity. The snow and thunder bring us closer to him at this time.
"Sleep, my beloved, for this white blanket which makes us cold, keeps the seeds warm, and these war-like things will produce beautiful flowers when Nisan comes.
"Thus, my child, man cannot reap love until after sad and revealing separation, and bitter patience, and desperate hardship. Sleep, my little boy; sweet dreams will find your soul who is unafraid of the terrible darkness of night and the biting frost."
The little boy looked upon his mother with sleep-laden eyes and said, "Mother, my eyes are heavy, but I cannot go to bed without saying my prayer."
The woman looked at his angelic face, her vision blurred by misted eyes, and said, "Repeat with me, my boy - 'God, have mercy on the poor and protect them from the winter; warm their thin-clad bodies with Thy merciful hands; look upon the orphans who are sleeping in wretched houses, suffering from hunger and cold. Hear, oh Lord, the call of widows who are helpless and shivering with fear for their young. Open, oh Lord, the hearts of all humans, that they may see the misery of the weak. Have mercy upon the sufferers who knock on doors, and lead the wayfarers into warm places. Watch, oh Lord, over the little birds and protect the trees and fields from the anger of the storm; for Thou art merciful and full of love.'"
As Slumber captured the boy's spirit, his mother placed him in the bed and kissed his eyes with quivering lips. Then she went back and sat by the hearth, spinning the wool to make him raiment.

What is the song the children sing,
When doorway lilacs bloom in Spring,
And the Schools are loosed, and the games are played
That were deadly earnest when Earth was made?
Hear them chattering, shrill and hard,
After dinner-time, out in the yard,
As the sides are chosen and all submit
To the chance of the lot that shall make them "It."
(Singing)
"Eenee, Meenee, Mainee, Mo!
Catch a nigger by the toe!
(If he hollers let him go!)
Eenee, Meenee. Mainee, Mo!
You-are-It!"
Eenee, Meenee, Mainee, and Mo
Were the First Big Four of the Long Ago,
When the Pole of the Earth sloped thirty degrees,
And Central Europe began to freeze,
And they needed Ambassadors staunch and stark
To steady the Tribes in the gathering dark:
But the frost was fierce and flesh was frail,
So they launched a Magic that could not fail.
(Singing)
"Eenee, Meenee, Mainee, Mo!
Hear the wolves across the snow!
Some one has to kill 'em--so
Eenee, Meenee, Mainee, Mo
Make--you--It!"
Slow ly the Glacial Epoch passed,
Central Europe thawed out at last;
And, under the slush of the melting snows
The first dim shapes of the Nations rose.
Rome, Britannia, Belgium, Gaul--
Flood and avalanche fathered them all;
And the First Big Four, as they watched the mess,
Pitied Man in his helplessness.
(Singing)
"Eenee, Meenee, Mainee, Mo!
Trouble starts When Nations grow,
Some one has to stop it--so
Eenee, Meenee, Mainee, Mo!
Make-you-It!"
Thus it happened, but none can tell
What was the Power behind the spell--
Fear, or Duty, or Pride, or Faith--
That sent men shuddering out to death--
To cold and watching, and, worse than these,
Work, more work, when they looked for ease--
To the days discomfort, the nights despair,
In the hope of a prize that they never could share,
(Singing)
"Eenee, Meenee, Mainee, Mo!
Man is born to Toil and Woe.
One will cure another--so
Eenee, Meenee, Mainee, Mo
Make--you--It!"
Once and again, as the Ice went North
The grass crept up to the Firth of Forth.
Once and again, as the Ice came South
The glaciers ground over Lossiemouth.
But, grass or glacier, cold or hot,
The men went out who would rather not,
And fought with the Tiger, the Pig and the Ape,
To hammer the world into decent shape.
(Singing)
"Eenee, Meenee, Mainee, Mo!
What's the use of doing so?
Ask the Gods, for we don't know;
But Eenee, Meenee, Mainee, Mo
Make-us-It!"
Nothing is left of that terrible rune
But a tag of gibberish tacked to a tune
That ends the waiting and settles the claims
Of children arguing over their games;
For never yet has a boy been found
To shirk his turn when the turn came round;
Nor even a girl has been known to say
"If you laugh at me I shan't play."
For--
"Eenee, Meenee, Mainee, Mo,
(Don't you let the grown-ups know!)
You may hate it ever so,
But if you're chose you're bound to go,
When Eenee, Meenee, Mainee, Mo
Make-you-It!"

Look off, dear Love, across the sallow sands,
And mark yon meeting of the sun and sea,
How long they kiss in sight of all the lands.
Ah! longer, longer, we.
Now in the sea's red vintage melts the sun,
As Egypt's pearl dissolved in rosy wine,
And Cleopatra night drinks all.  'Tis done,
Love, lay thine hand in mine.
Come forth, sweet stars, and comfort heaven's heart;
Glimmer, ye waves, round else unlighted sands.
O night! divorce our sun and sky apart
Never our lips, our hands.

Ancient Person, for whom I
All the flattering youth defy,
Long be it e'er thou grow old,
Aching, shaking, crazy cold;
But still continue as thou art,
Ancient Person of my heart.
On thy withered lips and dry,
Which like barren furrows lie,
Brooding kisses I will pour,
Shall thy youthful heart restore,
Such kind show'rs in autumn fall,
And a second spring recall;
Nor from thee will ever part,
Ancient Person of my heart.
Thy nobler parts, which but to name
In our sex would be counted shame,
By ages frozen grasp possest,
From their ice shall be released,
And, soothed by my reviving hand,
In former warmth and vigour stand.
All a lover's wish can reach,
For thy joy my love shall teach;
And for thy pleasure shall improve
All that art can add to love.
Yet still I love thee without art,
Ancient Person of my heart.

Let the snake wait under
his weed
and the writing
be of words, slow and quick, sharp
to strike, quiet to wait,
sleepless.
-- through metaphor to reconcile
the people and the stones.
Compose. (No ideas
but in things) Invent!
Saxifrage is my flower that splits
the rocks.

My jolly fat host with your face all a-grin,
Come, open the door to us, let us come in.
A score of stout fellows who think it no sin
If they toast till they're hoarse, and drink till they spin,
Hoofed it amain
Rain or no rain,
To crack your old jokes, and your bottle to drain.
Such a warmth in the belly that nectar begets
As soon as his guts with its humour he wets,
The miser his gold, and the student his debts,
And the beggar his rags and his hunger forgets.
For there's never a wine
Like this tipple of thine
From the great hill of Nuits to the River of Rhine.
Outside you may hear the great gusts as they go
By Foy, by Duerne, and the hills of Lerraulx,
But the rain he may rain, and the wind he may blow,
If the Devil's above there's good liquor below.
So it abound,
Pass it around,
Burgundy's Burgundy all the year round.

How can I keep my soul in me, so that
it doesn't touch your soul? How can I raise
it high enough, past you, to other things?
I would like to shelter it, among remote
lost objects, in some dark and silent place
that doesn't resonate when your depths resound.
Yet everything that touches us, me and you,
takes us together like a violin's bow,
which draws *one* voice out of two separate strings.
Upon what instrument are we two spanned?
And what musician holds us in his hand?
Oh sweetest song.

Hidden, oh hidden
in the high fog
the house we live in,
beneath the magnetic rock,
rain-, rainbow-ridden,
where blood-black
bromelias, lichens,
owls, and the lint
of the waterfalls cling,
familiar, unbidden.
In a dim age
of water
the brook sings loud
from a rib cage
of giant fern; vapor
climbs up the thick growth
effortlessly, turns back,
holding them both,
house and rock,
in a private cloud.
At night, on the roof,
blind drops crawl
and the ordinary brown
owl gives us proof
he can count:
five times--always five--
he stamps and takes off
after the fat frogs that,
shrilling for love,
clamber and mount.
House, open house
to the white dew
and the milk-white sunrise
kind to the eyes,
to membership
of silver fish, mouse,
bookworms,
big moths; with a wall
for the mildew's
ignorant map;
darkened and tarnished
by the warm touch
of the warm breath,
maculate, cherished;
rejoice! For a later
era will differ.
(O difference that kills
or intimidates, much
of all our small shadowy
life!) Without water
the great rock will stare
unmagnetized, bare,
no longer wearing
rainbows or rain,
the forgiving air
and the high fog gone;
the owls will move on
and the several
waterfalls shrivel
in the steady sun.

I saw thee on thy bridal day-
When a burning blush came o'er thee,
Though happiness around thee lay,
The world all love before thee:
And in thine eye a kindling light
(Whatever it might be)
Was all on Earth my aching sight
Of Loveliness could see.
That blush, perhaps, was maiden shame-
As such it well may pass-
Though its glow hath raised a fiercer flame
In the breast of him, alas!
Who saw thee on that bridal day,
When that deep blush would come o'er thee,
Though happiness around thee lay;
The world all love before thee.

Pelagius lived at Kardanoel
And taught a doctrine there
How, whether you went to heaven or to hell
It was your own affair.
It had nothing to do with the Church, my boy,
But was your own affair.
No, he didn't believe
In Adam and Eve
He put no faith therein!
His doubts began
With the Fall of Man
And he laughed at Original Sin.
With my row-ti-tow
Ti-oodly-ow
He laughed at original sin.
Then came the bishop of old Auxerre
Germanus was his name
He tore great handfuls out of his hair
And he called Pelagius shame.
And with his stout Episcopal staff
So thoroughly whacked and banged
The heretics all, both short and tall --
They rather had been hanged.
Oh he whacked them hard, and he banged them long
Upon each and all occasions
Till they bellowed in chorus, loud and strong
Their orthodox persuasions.
With my row-ti-tow
Ti-oodly-ow
Their orthodox persuasions.
Now the faith is old and the Devil bold
Exceedingly bold indeed.
And the masses of doubt that are floating about
Would smother a mortal creed.
But we that sit in a sturdy youth
And still can drink strong ale
Let us put it away to infallible truth
That always shall prevail.
And thank the Lord
For the temporal sword
And howling heretics too.
And all good things
Our Christendom brings
But especially barley brew!
With my row-ti-tow
Ti-oodly-ow
Especially barley brew!

to lose you i know is one kind sorrow
for i claim a loss that i never had even once owned.
a play of words, and i know you do not understand
what each word means, what a punctuation is.
this heart that grieves for what it cannot even touch
with its fragile hands, its trembling fingers
for what i see is but a glimmer
a faint light, a shadow, a hush, a slight glimpse
no one knows what secret suffering is all about
(secret so to say, i give it a language of its own)
a heart that bleeds without drops of blood
a heart injured yet without the bruises and wound
i mix with the crowd just like what we do when we go malling.
i smile like the way all people smile. i always have a glimpse of you.
yet i know, i do not wait for anybody, or anything, this is simply
an impossible endeavor. Clouds that dissipate. Air that vanish.
a door that closes. a bus that leaves. a plane turning into a dot in space.
i look up actually for nothing. i  pretend sometimes that there are stars where there are none but black clouds and tree tops.
i look down and only see suffering. Pebbles and gray sands.
i sleep without remembering my dreams. i wake up not thinking
about what to do specifically with  my life. I have everything you say.
but since i do not have you, i am still nothing. I am simply arms emptied
of its embrace. I am hands groping with nothing but space.
it does not matter. i touch my chest and feel that i am strong.
i give up the gift of speech. I take in the gift of words written in utter silence.

Speedy to the plunder,
Swift to the spoil;
The lion will eat straw like the ox.
A tumultuous noise,
The bricks have fallen  down;
Light and joy,
Darkness and sorrow,
The wolf will dwell with the lamb;
To the brook of the willows like,
The Sycamore Tree that are cut down.
Love is as strong as death,
Jealousy is as cruel as the grave;
Listen to my muse oh Earth!
As white as snow,
To shave with a hired razor;
As slow as the tortoise,
The leopard will lie down with the goat;
In a barren night like a stillborn child where,
The teeth of the young lions are broken;
Darkness and sorrow,
Love is as strong as death itself.

I smile as the blood runs down my arm.
The blood is a mixture of mine and those who have,
betrayed my trust and heart.
I don't care if i die for my crimes,
to me it was all worth it in the end.
Now i know that no one will betray me again,
but if they do i will kill myself instead of them.
Maybe, just maybe, I'll rest in peace with no fear of
ever getting hurt again, but I know that's not true,
you never get peace.
There is no such thing in any life time.So now i know
why i'm here...
I'm one of those few poeple born into this world,
that are priveleged to be hurt, stabbed in the back,
betrayed, and most of all...unloved.
That day I ran out of tears, so now I smile.
I truly have no reason to.
But since my tears are forever dry.
I smile for its the only thing i can do.

joy and sorrow resolute within and beyond
night seems to lie in deep sleep
speckles of darkness covers her body
i close my eyes by the bliss of love
tonight tolls cry of innocence
as we look back through lone silence
audacity of hope resigns to repose
rain was running in deep breath
earth clenches mirth into riff of dusts
thirst dissolute melting the shadow
would you not comeback to fold of tonight
moments still remembers tinge of snow

I am lucky
I have your love
I am blessed
I know you
But
It is so hurtful
And
So painful
That I can't feel and touch you

I stand tall as all the misery around me floats
The words when i first heard of the sadness in my life
But i do not budge for i am strong
I walk past all who offer me a kind word to help ease my soul
I decline for I let my strength shine through
Acceptance within my heart I say i am all right
Everyone watches as i walk past and comment on my strength
Some fear that i have no feelings others envy for they hurt so much
I walk through the door of my bedroom and shut it behind me
I fall to my knees and catch myself with my hands as the tears stain the floor
My strength is gone and now my sorrrow envelopes me
My sight is blurred as the pure rain falls from my cheeks
I can not breathe as I realize what happened
After some time i wipe my eyes dry and walk back out with my strength for all to see

SORROW, on wing through the world for ever,
Here and there for awhile would borrow
Rest, if rest might haply deliver
Sorrow.
One thought lies close in her heart gnawn thorough
With pain, a weed in a dried-up river,
A rust-red share in an empty furrow.
Hearts that strain at her chain would sever
The link where yesterday frets to-morrow:
All things pass in the world, but never
Sorrow.

Sorrow, sorrow why have you catch me so
Why have you left me in such a big hole
sorrow, sorrow when will you leave my soul
and let my heart breath so
There is nowhere to go
if you keep beating on my heart so
Sorrow, sorrow its time to go
and let your heart be with your soul

If we love a thing, a flower, Nature or a person, it is
Indeed a natural feeling of heart that settles in mind;
If we lose a thing, we get another thing in its place;
If we lose a flower, we get another one, but not a person!
Nature is eternal, but all others appear and disappear;
But humans with heart and mind it is difficult to lose
The loved ones that cannot be regained in the world...;
Grown ups may manage themselves, but what about a child?
The child remembers the loved ones deeply in heart ever;
The child may forget by diversion on so many new things;
The child may grow up, but never forgets the loved ones;
How can the child bear, if loved ones pass away regularly?
The longing of child grows bringing in the sorrow of life;
Like the darkness slowly occupies in full the whole place,
Sorrow engulfs the heart of joyful child, if all loved ones
Pass away one after the other in the journey of life here!
This kind of sorrow how can the child bear and manage ever
Is a big question heartens me much, when I recollect the
Deep love of a child on me after the demise of my better-
Half sometime back in my life never leaving my mind sure!

Look look look
It is spring
Greenery and flowers
It will bring
Daffodil and jasmine
Daisy and rose
Come lets all water them
With the garden hose
Oh no oh no oh no
The rose is no more pink
Oh no what have I done
I've watered them with ink!

The Silver Birch is a dainty lady,
She wears a satin gown;
The elm tree makes the old churchyard shady,
She will not live in town.
The English oak is a sturdy fellow,
He gets his green coat late;
The willow is smart in a suit of yellow
While brown the beech trees wait.
Such a gay green gown God gives the larches-
As green as he is good!
The hazels hold up their arms for arches,
When spring rides through the wood.
The chestnut’s proud, and the lilac’s pretty,
The poplar’s gentle and tall,
But the plane tree’s kind to the poor dull city-
I love him best of all!

O Spring, I know thee! Seek for sweet surprise
In the young children's eyes.
But I have learnt the years, and know the yet
Leaf-folded violet.
Mine ear, awake to silence, can foretell
The cuckoo's fitful bell.
I wander in a gray time that encloses
June and the wild hedge-roses.
A year's procession of the flowers doth pass
My feet, along the grass.
And all you sweet birds silent yet, I know
The notes that stir you so,
Your songs yet half devised in the dim dear
Beginnings of the year.
In these young days you meditate your part;
I have it all by heart.
I know the secrets of the seeds of flowers
Hidden and warm with showers,
And how, in kindling Spring, the cuckoo shall
Alter his interval.
But not a flower or song I ponder is
My own, but memory's.
I shall be silent in those days desired
Before a world inspired.
O dear brown birds, compose your old song-phrases,
Earth, thy familiar daisies.
The poet mused upon the dusky height,
Between two stars towards night,
His purpose in his heart. I watched, a space,
The meaning of his face:
There was the secret, fled from earth and skies,
Hid in his gray young eyes.
My heart and all the Summer wait his choice,
And wonder for his voice.
Who shall foretell his songs, and who aspire
But to divine his lyre?
Sweet earth, we know thy dimmest mysteries,
But he is lord of his.

THE bed of flowers
Loosens amain,
The beauteous snowdrops
Droop o'er the plain.
The crocus opens
Its glowing bud,
Like emeralds others,
Others, like blood.
With saucy gesture
Primroses flare,
And roguish violets,
Hidden with care;
And whatsoever
There stirs and strives,
The Spring's contented,
If works and thrives.
'Mongst all the blossoms
That fairest are,
My sweetheart's sweetness
Is sweetest far;
Upon me ever
Her glances light,
My song they waken,
My words make bright,
An ever open
And blooming mind,
In sport, unsullied,
In earnest, kind.
Though roses and lilies
By Summer are brought,
Against my sweetheart
Prevails he nought.

By the road to the contagious hospital
under the surge of the blue
mottled clouds driven from the
northeast -- a cold wind. Beyond, the
waste of broad, muddy fields
brown with dried weeds, standing and fallen
patches of standing water
the scattering of tall trees
All along the road the reddish
purplish, forked, upstanding, twiggy
stuff of bushes and small trees
with dead, brown leaves under them
leafless vines --
Lifeless in appearance, sluggish
dazed spring approaches --
They enter the new world naked,
cold, uncertain of all
save that they enter. All about them
the cold, familiar wind --
Now the grass, tomorrow
the stiff curl of wildcarrot leaf
One by one objects are defined --
It quickens: clarity, outline of leaf
But now the stark dignity of
entrance -- Still, the profound change
has come upon them: rooted they
grip down and begin to awaken

spring is a -springing
the sun is a-shining
and daffodils dance in the dew of the garden
horses are necking
and neighing and whinnying
and chasing each other all over the paddock
birds are a-nesting
and preening and strutting
about with their feathers all ruffled and polished
children are laughing
their faces exploding
with smiles and giggles and games of pretending
lovers are lusting
and cooing and kissing
and dreaming of yellow and sunshine and flowers

Flowers are on their way to bloom
Birds do twitter in the sky
You see
The sea &
The sky
Are blue
Love is the essence of life
And I am on my way to you!

Hark, I hear a robin calling!
List, the wind is from the south!
And the orchard-bloom is falling
Sweet as kisses on the mouth.
In the dreamy vale of beeches
Fair and faint is woven mist,
And the river's orient reaches
Are the palest amethyst.
Every limpid brook is singing
Of the lure of April days;
Every piney glen is ringing
With the maddest roundelays.
Come and let us seek together
Springtime lore of daffodils,
Giving to the golden weather
Greeting on the sun-warm hills.
Ours shall be the moonrise stealing
Through the birches ivory-white;
Ours shall be the mystic healing
Of the velvet-footed night.
Ours shall be the gypsy winding
Of the path with violets blue,
Ours at last the wizard finding
Of the land where dreams come true.

The sky has given over
its bitterness.
Out of the dark change
all day long
rain falls and falls
as if it would never end.
Still the snow keeps
its hold on the ground.
But water, water
from a thousand runnels!
It collects swiftly,
dappled with black
cuts a way for itself
through green ice in the gutters.
Drop after drop it falls
from the withered grass-stems
of the overhanging embankment.

Back in black I hit you hard
With my classic rock chick style
I shake my hips to zeppelin hits
And watch you as you smile
If you want blood you got it
I’ll bleed and give you mine
I’ll let you taste below my waist
And drink my vintage wine
I shook you all night long
With the classic guitar groove
I lean back in the white snake sack
As my hips start to move
Purple rainbow straddles above me
As it drips on my naked skin
High like a free bird in the the sky
I knock back tequila & gin

A star
Shining brightly by the moonlight
Like a flickering spotlight
Like the only one of it's kind
On Earth I feel like a giant
Compared to a star
A star
! A STAR!

Bright star, would I were stedfast as thou art-
Not in lone splendour hung aloft the night
And watching, with eternal lids apart,
Like nature's patient, sleepless Eremite,
The moving waters at their priestlike task
Of pure ablution round earth's human shores,
Or gazing on the new soft-fallen mask
Of snow upon the mountains and the moors-
No- yet still stedfast, still unchangeable,
Pillow'd upon my fair love's ripening breast,
To feel for ever its soft fall and swell,
Awake for ever in a sweet unrest,
Still, still to hear her tender-taken breath,
And so live ever- or else swoon to death.

I watch the sunlight dance across your face of elegance,
And I've never been this swept away in romance......
All my thoughts just seem to settle on the breeze
When I'm lying wrapped up in your arms......
The whole world just fades away in nothingness;
The only thing I hear is the beating of your heart, oh tess!
Heigh-ho! Star light, star bright! First love star, I see tonight!
Ding, ding, dong! Ding, ding dong! Love bells jingle in my heart!
I can feel magic floating in air, being with you gets me that way
I can feel you breathe, it’s washing over me, oh baby love empress
I'm melting into you, I can feel your charm, oh baby love countess
Nothing left to prove much, just to be caught up in your touch,
I can feel you breathe, just breathe, the slow and steady rush as such!
Keep me warm, Kiss me hard, hug me lot, feel my heart anyway.
Heigh-ho! Star light, star bright! First love star, I see tonight!
Ding, ding, dong! Ding, ding dong! Love bells jingle in my heart!
I love you love for the love you gave and for time we had....
I love you love for the tempestuous thoughts and happiness I got;
I love you love for your support and for loving me a lot.
I love you love for teaching me love and making me beloved.
I love your for living with me 24/7 and seventy times seven!
I love you love for liberating my soul and lifting me to heaven.
Heigh-ho! Star light, star bright! First love star, I see tonight!
Ding, ding, dong! Ding, ding dong! Love bells jingle in my heart!

It was a lonely and dark night
I lost directions left and right
Then I saw a star so bright
Its lovely cosmic light
And now I feel all right
jibin joseph

Go and catch a falling star,
Get with child a mandrake root,
Tell me where all past years are,
Or who cleft the devil's foot,
Teach me to hear mermaids singing,
Or to keep off envy's stinging,
And find
What wind
Serves to advance an honest mind.
If thou be'st born to strange sights,
Things invisible to see,
Ride ten thousand days and nights,
Till age snow white hairs on thee,
Thou, when thou return'st, wilt tell me,
All strange wonders that befell thee,
And swear,
No where
Lives a woman true, and fair.
If thou find'st one, let me know,
Such a pilgrimage were sweet;
Yet do not, I would not go,
Though at next door we might meet;
Though she were true, when you met her,
And last, till you write your letter,
Yet she
Will be
False, ere I come, to two, or three.

no arms
to break my fall
I wait
hollow-eyed
for sleep
silent sentry
in the jungle night
I lie cemented
in self
counting black holes
in space
where once
there were stars
to wish on

Smiles soon abate; the boisterous throes
Of anger long burst forth;
Inconstantly the south-wind blows,
But steadily the north.
Thy star, O Venus! often changes
Its radiant seat above,
The chilling pole-star never ranges --
'Tis thus with Hate and Love.

The Sun is not just a special star
Huge balls of hot gases are stars spinning in space
So big so hot and giving heat and light to the Earth
Larger than one million Earths is the Shining Sun in front of our face.
We must never look directly at the Sun
Cos it's not fun its brightness will damage the eyes
The Sun gives lives to all creatures on Earth
To all births, animals, human beings n natures when Sun shines
The stars shine all the time day and night
The Sun's so bright, it hides the light of the other stars
With a steady light's broken up as it passes through the Earth's atmosphere
Oh my dear, how beautiful they look, sparkle twinkle little stars.
The Earth spins or rotates on its axis
In geographic, we have...night and day, who wonder how?
The axis is an...imaginary line, going through the centre of the Earth
Taking 24 hours at once for the Earth to spin around.
At night, one side of the Earth moves away from the Sun
That part is the darkness..as the sun seems to sink below
Look at the horizon, the darkness is starting filling the dawn sky
With the rich dark beautiful colours, changing to night time very very slow.

Nothing permanent ever came
Neither success, nor failure.
It's how wise you play the game,
Your integrity that'll endure.
Eagles do look good in sky,
But whose voice is pleasing, say?
Which is the bird you want in nest
To sing for you all day?
He who plays fair always
Is the one ideal, worthwhile.
And even when he fails,
He accepts it with smile!
A man of succes is not he
Who has conquered all feats,
But he who the world envies
Even in his greatest defeats!
(written on the 21st of April,2009)

The best of the other in the one.
The best of the one in the other.
Either in the one or the other,
the best of the other or the one.
The success that lies in sadness,
the sadness in success.
The honour and the love.
Best below, above.

Fruition of your
Big step will start with your first
SMALL confident step

My first step to success.....
it all began when it started
i held the page upright as it was free from ink
ideas flowed like a river in summer
my mind became glimmering with thoughts
i had to begin somewhere with the right
words, i had to tickle the reader at first sight
i sat as i drowned in knowledge
scanning the words carefully since i could not afford
mistakes
my fingers took the first step
my mouth entertained the words
my brain structured the llines
the pen moved along the page
half way towards the end
the alarm awakend me
mum shouting at her best
birds tweeting outside
i rose from my bed in disappointment
it was all just a dream.......!

Just like how ocean’s waves all fall and rise,
Again, again incessantly, forev’r!
When failures come, remain we must most wise,
And try again, again but quit never.
The greatest men had failures too, much more;
Yet undeterred, they fought their way through them;
Recurrent failures could open new door;
Perseverance must be success emblem.
Learn from each failure but never look back;
Let world comment and mock, ’tis not for long;
But never do become lethargic/ slack;
No one predicts when rings your success gong!
Great men were dull once but never gave up;
Always in life, like a steed you gallop.

success is something
which u  keep chasing
until u trap it in net
and lock it up
and look day and night
that the prisoner wont escape
and be caught somewhere else
by people who wont set it free
just like u planned to keep
and once it escapes
it leads to fighting and pain
and even break between success seeking friends
some think why is it important
to fight for such a thing
to strive without a friend
to waste time searching
but only few know the advantage of its presence.............................

Success is measured,
Not by wealth
Nor by position or fame
And not by power
Or pride in self
And not by size of gain,
It’s being truly happy
with what you have
Whatever that may be
Success is being
content, with God
as the center of your family
Copyright C R Clark-July 4,1981

If I were to be not myself,
then I would rather not want this success,
If I were to unlearn all my values and principles,
then what is the use of learning the tactics of this success,
If I were to barter the blissful moments with my loved ones, for this maddening race, then I would prefer, this success, to not to be chased.
If my smile and emotions have to be fake,
then I would rather not socialize just for the heck (of it) .
Yes, it is important even for me to have success,
The realization of aspirations is what is my success.
The utilization of skills and tapping of potential, is what is my success..
The zeal to learn and always wanting to improve, is what is my success..
To compete with none but myself, is what is my success..
The satisfaction of giving and contributing, is my success..
I want this success and am moving only towards this SUCCESS! !

The Road to Success
We all want to walk on the road of success
But do you day by day measure your progress
Do you have a vision?
Do you have a mission?
You need one even if it is inspired by television
We all want to walk on the road of success
But do you day by day measure your progress
Critically look at your personal development
Grizzle over the final accomplishment
Decide on the instruments you need at the moment?
On its road, there are many paths to take
With many sacrifices along the way to make
Patience, faith and hard work, please don’t forsake
Or your dreams will pour empty into a wide lake
We all want to walk on the road of success
But do you day by day measure your progress
Is your vision greater than greatness?
You are the first one you must try to impress
Take a step at a time and do not digress
For success when achieved, I say without sarcasm
Is more gratifying than any orgasm
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi

in the last analysis
it was not his gullibility
because it could have been so well learned
and the swindling avoided
as early as possible,
frankly speaking
it was his greed, and nothing but his greed,
which made the
swindlers have the last laugh
greed allows
everyone to come and
take everything
everything

In winter I get up at night
And dress by yellow candle-light.
In summer quite the other way,
I have to go to bed by day.
I have to go to bed and see
The birds still hopping on the tree,
Or hear the grown-up people's feet
Still going past me in the street.
And does it not seem hard to you,
When all the sky is clear and blue,
And I should like so much to play,
To have to go to bed by day?

1068
Further in Summer than the Birds
Pathetic from the Grass
A minor Nation celebrates
Its unobtrusive Mass.
No Ordinance be seen
So gradual the Grace
A pensive Custom it becomes
Enlarging Loneliness.
Antiquest felt at Noon
When August burning low
Arise this spectral Canticle
Repose to typify
Remit as yet no Grace
No Furrow on the Glow
Yet a Druidic Difference
Enhances Nature now

In the summer
I stretch out on the shore
And think of you
Had I told the sea
What I felt for you,
It would have left its shores,
Its shells,
Its fish,
And followed me.
Translated by B. Frangieh And C. Brown
Submitted by Noele Aabye

How beautiful is the rain!
After the dust and heat,
In the broad and fiery street,
In the narrow lane,
How beautiful is the rain!
How it clatters along the roofs,
Like the tramp of hoofs
How it gushes and struggles out
From the throat of the overflowing spout!
Across the window-pane
It pours and pours;
And swift and wide,
With a muddy tide,
Like a river down the gutter roars
The rain, the welcome rain!
The sick man from his chamber looks
At the twisted brooks;
He can feel the cool
Breath of each little pool;
His fevered brain
Grows calm again,
And he breathes a blessing on the rain.
From the neighboring school
Come the boys,
With more than their wonted noise
And commotion;
And down the wet streets
Sail their mimic fleets,
Till the treacherous pool
Ingulfs them in its whirling
And turbulent ocean.
In the country, on every side,
Where far and wide,
Like a leopard's tawny and spotted hide,
Stretches the plain,
To the dry grass and the drier grain
How welcome is the rain!
In the furrowed land
The toilsome and patient oxen stand;
Lifting the yoke encumbered head,
With their dilated nostrils spread,
They silently inhale
The clover-scented gale,
And the vapors that arise
From the well-watered and smoking soil.
For this rest in the furrow after toil
Their large and lustrous eyes
Seem to thank the Lord,
More than man's spoken word.
Near at hand,
From under the sheltering trees,
The farmer sees
His pastures, and his fields of grain,
As they bend their tops
To the numberless beating drops
Of the incessant rain.
He counts it as no sin
That he sees therein
Only his own thrift and gain.
These, and far more than these,
The Poet sees!
He can behold
Aquarius old
Walking the fenceless fields of air;
And from each ample fold
Of the clouds about him rolled
Scattering everywhere
The showery rain,
As the farmer scatters his grain.
He can behold
Things manifold
That have not yet been wholly told,--
Have not been wholly sung nor said.
For his thought, that never stops,
Follows the water-drops
Down to the graves of the dead,
Down through chasms and gulfs profound,
To the dreary fountain-head
Of lakes and rivers under ground;
And sees them, when the rain is done,
On the bridge of colors seven
Climbing up once more to heaven,
Opposite the setting sun.
Thus the Seer,
With vision clear,
Sees forms appear and disappear,
In the perpetual round of strange,
Mysterious change
From birth to death, from death to birth,
From earth to heaven, from heaven to earth;
Till glimpses more sublime
Of things, unseen before,
Unto his wondering eyes reveal
The Universe, as an immeasurable wheel
Turning forevermore
In the rapid and rushing river of Time.

Now swarthy Summer, by rude health embrowned,
Precedence takes of rosy fingered Spring;
And laughing Joy, with wild flowers prank'd, and crown'd,
A wild and giddy thing,
And Health robust, from every care unbound,
Come on the zephyr's wing,
And cheer the toiling clown.
Happy as holiday-enjoying face,
Loud tongued, and "merry as a marriage bell,"
Thy lightsome step sheds joy in every place;
And where the troubled dwell,
Thy witching charms wean them of half their cares;
And from thy sunny spell,
They greet joy unawares.
Then with thy sultry locks all loose and rude,
And mantle laced with gems of garish light,
Come as of wont; for I would fain intrude,
And in the world's despite,
Share the rude wealth that thy own heart beguiles;
If haply so I might
Win pleasure from thy smiles.
Me not the noise of brawling pleasure cheers,
In nightly revels or in city streets;
But joys which soothe, and not distract the ears,
That one at leisure meets
In the green woods, and meadows summer-shorn,
Or fields, where bee-fly greets
The ear with mellow horn.
The green-swathed grasshopper, on treble pipe,
Sings there, and dances, in mad-hearted pranks;
There bees go courting every flower that's ripe,
On baulks and sunny banks;
And droning dragon-fly, on rude bassoon,
Attempts to give God thanks
In no discordant tune.
The speckled thrush, by self-delight embued,
There sings unto himself for joy's amends,
And drinks the honey dew of solitude.
There Happiness attends
With inbred Joy until the heart o'erflow,
Of which the world's rude friends,
Nought heeding, nothing know.
There the gay river, laughing as it goes,
Plashes with easy wave its flaggy sides,
And to the calm of heart, in calmness shows
What pleasure there abides,
To trace its sedgy banks, from trouble free:
Spots Solitude provides
To muse, and happy be.
There ruminating 'neath some pleasant bush,
On sweet silk grass I stretch me at mine ease,
Where I can pillow on the yielding rush;
And, acting as I please,
Drop into pleasant dreams; or musing lie,
Mark the wind-shaken trees,
And cloud-betravelled sky.
There think me how some barter joy for care,
And waste life's summer-health in riot rude,
Of nature, nor of nature's sweets aware.
When passions vain intrude,
These, by calm musings, softened are and still;
And the heart's better mood
Feels sick of doing ill.
There I can live, and at my leisure seek
Joys far from cold restraints--not fearing pride--
Free as the winds, that breathe upon my cheek
Rude health, so long denied.
Here poor Integrity can sit at ease,
And list self-satisfied
The song of honey-bees.
The green lane now I traverse, where it goes
Nought guessing, till some sudden turn espies
Rude batter'd finger post, that stooping shows
Where the snug mystery lies;
And then a mossy spire, with ivy crown,
Cheers up the short surprise,
And shows a peeping town.
I see the wild flowers, in their summer morn
Of beauty, feeding on joy's luscious hours;
The gay convolvulus, wreathing round the thorn,
Agape for honey showers;
And slender kingcup, burnished with the dew
Of morning's early hours,
Like gold yminted new.
And mark by rustic bridge, o'er shallow stream,
Cow-tending boy, to toil unreconciled,
Absorbed as in some vagrant summer dream;
Who now, in gestures wild,
Starts dancing to his shadow on the wall,
Feeling self-gratified,
Nor fearing human thrall.
Or thread the sunny valley laced with streams,
Or forests rude, and the o'ershadow'd brims
Of simple ponds, where idle shepherd dreams,
Stretching his listless limbs;
Or trace hay-scented meadows, smooth and long,
Where joy's wild impulse swims
In one continued song.
I love at early morn, from new mown swath,
To see the startled frog his route pursue;
To mark while, leaping o'er the dripping path,
His bright sides scatter dew,
The early lark that from its bustle flies,
To hail his matin new;
And watch him to the skies.
To note on hedgerow baulks, in moisture sprent,
The jetty snail creep from the mossy thorn,
With earnest heed, and tremulous intent,
Frail brother of the morn,
That from the tiny bent's dew-misted leaves
Withdraws his timid horn,
And fearful vision weaves.
Or swallow heed on smoke-tanned chimney top,
Wont to be first unsealing Morning's eye,
Ere yet the bee hath gleaned one wayward drop
Of honey on his thigh;
To see him seek morn's airy couch to sing,
Until the golden sky
Bepaint his russet wing.
Or sauntering boy by tanning corn to spy,
With clapping noise to startle birds away,
And hear him bawl to every passer by
To know the hour of day;
While the uncradled breezes, fresh and strong,
With waking blossoms play,
And breathe Æolian song.
I love the south-west wind, or low or loud,
And not the less when sudden drops of rain
Moisten my glowing cheek from ebon cloud,
Threatening soft showers again,
That over lands new ploughed and meadow grounds,
Summer's sweet breath unchain,
And wake harmonious sounds.
Rich music breathes in Summer's every sound;
And in her harmony of varied greens,
Woods, meadows, hedge-rows, corn-fields, all around
Much beauty intervenes,
Filling with harmony the ear and eye;
While o'er the mingling scenes
Far spreads the laughing sky.
See, how the wind-enamoured aspen leaves
Turn up their silver lining to the sun!
And hark! the rustling noise, that oft deceives,
And makes the sheep-boy run:
The sound so mimics fast-approaching showers,
He thinks the rain's begun,
And hastes to sheltering bowers.
But now the evening curdles dank and grey,
Changing her watchet hue for sombre weed;
And moping owls, to close the lids of day,
On drowsy wing proceed;
While chickering crickets, tremulous and long,
Light's farewell inly heed,
And give it parting song.
The pranking bat its flighty circlet makes;
The glow-worm burnishes its lamp anew;
O'er meadows dew-besprent, the beetle wakes
Inquiries ever new,
Teazing each passing ear with murmurs vain,
As wanting to pursue
His homeward path again.
Hark! 'tis the melody of distant bells
That on the wind with pleasing hum rebounds
By fitful starts, then musically swells
O'er the dim stilly grounds;
While on the meadow-bridge the pausing boy
Listens the mellow sounds,
And hums in vacant joy.
Now homeward-bound, the hedger bundles round
His evening faggot, and with every stride
His leathern doublet leaves a rustling sound,
Till silly sheep beside
His path start tremulous, and once again
Look back dissatisfied,
And scour the dewy plain.
How sweet the soothing calmness that distills
O'er the heart's every sense its opiate dews,
In meek-eyed moods and ever balmy trills!
That softens and subdues,
With gentle Quiet's bland and sober train,
Which dreamy eve renews
In many a mellow strain!
I love to walk the fields, they are to me
A legacy no evil can destroy;
They, like a spell, set every rapture free
That cheer'd me when a boy.
Play--pastime--all Time's blotting pen conceal'd,
Comes like a new-born joy,
To greet me in the field.
For Nature's objects ever harmonize
With emulous Taste, that vulgar deed annoys;
Which loves in pensive moods to sympathize,
And meet vibrating joys
O'er Nature's pleasing things; nor slighting, deems
Pastimes, the Muse employs,
Vain and obtrusive themes.

See what delights in sylvan scenes appear!
Descending Gods have found Elysium here.
In woods bright Venus with Adonis stray'd,
And chaste Diana haunts the forest shade.
Come lovely nymph, and bless the silent hours,
When swains from shearing seek their nightly bow'rs;
When weary reapers quit the sultry field,
And crown'd with corn, their thanks to Ceres yield.
This harmless grove no lurking viper hides,
But in my breast the serpent Love abides.
Here bees from blossoms sip the rosy dew,
But your Alexis knows no sweets but you.
Oh deign to visit our forsaken seats,
The mossy fountains, and the green retreats!
Where-e'er you walk, cool gales shall fan the glade,
Trees, where you sit, shall crowd into a shade,
Where-e'er you tread, the blushing flow'rs shall rise,
And all things flourish where you turn your eyes.
Oh! How I long with you to pass my days,
Invoke the muses, and resound your praise;
Your praise the birds shall chant in ev'ry grove,
And winds shall waft it to the pow'rs above.
But wou'd you sing, and rival Orpheus' strain,
The wond'ring forests soon shou'd dance again,
The moving mountains hear the pow'rful call,
And headlong streams hang list'ning in their fall!
But see, the shepherds shun the noon-day heat,
The lowing herds to murm'ring brooks retreat,
To closer shades the panting flocks remove,
Ye Gods! And is there no relief for Love?
But soon the sun with milder rays descends
To the cool ocean, where his journey ends;
On me Love's fiercer flames for ever prey,
By night he scorches, as he burns by day.

Great is the sun, and wide he goes
Through empty heaven with repose;
And in the blue and glowing days
More thick than rain he showers his rays.
Though closer still the blinds we pull
To keep the shady parlour cool,
Yet he will find a chink or two
To slip his golden fingers through.
The dusty attic spider-clad
He, through the keyhole, maketh glad;
And through the broken edge of tiles
Into the laddered hay-loft smiles.
Meantime his golden face around
He bares to all the garden ground,
And sheds a warm and glittering look
Among the ivy's inmost nook.
Above the hills, along the blue,
Round the bright air with footing true,
To please the child, to paint the rose,
The gardener of the World, he goes.

'Tis moonlight, summer moonlight,
All soft and still and fair;
The solemn hour of midnight
Breathes sweet thoughts everywhere,
But most where trees are sending
Their breezy boughs on high,
Or stooping low are lending
A shelter from the sky.
And there in those wild bowers
A lovely form is laid;
Green grass and dew-steeped flowers
Wave gently round her head.

Look at the moon
Shining so bright
Look at the sun
It’s such a sight
Look at the river
Flowing so fast
I wonder, how long
These three will last

Whatever You do, Whatever You say,
Even if Your angry all day,
Even if You want quiet time alone,
Or possibly time away from home,
Don't Let the Sun go down on Your anger! ! !
Don't Let anger take hold of You,
That You don't know what You do!
Pray! Right away! Jesus is waiting to hear! !
Tell Him all about it! No Reason to fear!
Than all Your anger will disappear! ! !
Ask Jesus for Forgiveness Immediately! ! !
For the anger that You displayed
To No Longer have anger in Your Heart
So, It won't become a part of You, Everyday! ! !
When Jesus was Upon the Cross! ! !
He said 'Father Forgive Them!
For they do Not no what they do! '
Always Love One another! Forgive All Others!
Just Like Our Father Forgave Me and You! !
Follow Jesus Steps! It's God's Request! ! !
Patricia Grace Nicholson

When my life one day has gone
And the breath I breathe
From me moves on...
I wonder if you'll want me near?
Or see images of me,
That come and disappear?
Will you wish upon a star...
Love from you would find my heart?
When my life one day has gone
I hope our spirits connect,
Like heat from the Sun on a tree belongs!

Sun over dark trees;
Sun rising over the black;
Sun and blueness, BLISS!
This day is a special one;
This perfect day, is like A  KISS!
This is another wonderful day!
One Sun, keeps us warm;
One Sun is needed to be;
One Sun will suffice, to see!
Only because of the sun;
Only that prevents our demise;
Only our Sun, maintains us all!
;

XXXII
The first time that the sun rose on thine oath
To love me, I looked forward to the moon
To slacken all those bonds which seemed too soon
And quickly tied to make a lasting troth.
Quick-loving hearts, I thought, may quickly loathe;
And, looking on myself, I seemed not one
For such man's love!—more like an out-of-tune
Worn viol, a good singer would be wroth
To spoil his song with, and which, snatched in haste,
Is laid down at the first ill-sounding note.
I did not wrong myself so, but I placed
A wrong on thee. For perfect strains may float
'Neath master-hands, from instruments defaced,—
And great souls, at one stroke, may do and doat.

Sun of my soul, Thou Savior dear,
It is not night if Thou be near;
O may no earthborn cloud arise
To hide Thee from Thy servant’s eyes.
When the soft dews of kindly sleep
My wearied eyelids gently steep,
Be my last thought, how sweet to rest
Forever on my Savior’s breast.
Abide with me from morn till eve,
For without Thee I cannot live;
Abide with me when night is nigh,
For without Thee I dare not die.
If some poor wandering child of Thine
Has spurned today the voice Divine,
Now, Lord, the gracious work begin;
Let him no more lie down in sin.
Watch by the sick, enrich the poor
With blessings from Thy boundless store;
Be every mourner’s sleep tonight,
Like infants’ slumbers, pure and right.
Come near and bless us when we wake,
Ere through the world our way we take,
Till in the ocean of Thy love
We lose ourselves in heaven above.

The moon still shines like that of ages old,
holding distant secrets like a tale yet to be told,
The sun in all its blinding beauty continues to lend us its rays,
enriching us with memories of those blisfull youthspent days.
The sea still massages the sandy golden shores,
passing from the sea gods ever open jaws.
The rain still travels from open blue skys,
showering the land as the sky god cries.
The wind whispers words of both hope and depair,
in hope it strokes the heads of ours so very fair,
The moon and the sun and the sea the rain and the wind,
do what they have done since time began,
yet Man, yes man has changed grown more hungry,
and in turn has robbed the earth of its enchanting energy,
Man has bombed, and slaughtered, and destroyed,
man has teased and tested and toyed.
And as i, a man am washed by the nightly visit of rain,
tears of fear fall in unsison with the cloudy droplets,
I was not meant for times like these,
i am a passer by a silent hooded journey man,
swaying in the comfort of the invisible breeze.
wanting and waiting with poetic patience,
to be taken away on the wings of timeless words.

232
The Sun—just touched the Morning—
The Morning—Happy thing—
Supposed that He had come to dwell—
And Life would all be Spring!
She felt herself supremer—
A Raised—Ethereal Thing!
Henceforth—for Her—What Holiday!
Meanwhile—Her wheeling King—
Trailed—slow—along the Orchards—
His haughty—spangled Hems—
Leaving a new necessity!
The want of Diadems!
The Morning—fluttered—staggered—
Felt feebly—for Her Crown—
Her unanointed forehead—
Henceforth—Her only One!

There is the sun
Who wakes me up for another day
That brightens each and every day
There is shine
Who shines so bright in the evening sky
That keeps me dreaming of better tomorrows
Then there is the light of my life
Who is always there when I am down
That has this gift of lighting the way
Without these three
I could not be
This is the sun, the shine
And the light of my life
This could only be my family
Who always brightens my life
With every passing day

Why, when our sun shines clearest,
Why, when our hopes seen nearest,
Why, when our life feels dearest,
Rises a secret pain—
Hope's perfect mirror broken—
Shadows of things unspoken-—
Why will not some sure token
Calm us to rest again?
Mixed with all earthly blessing
Lingers the fear distressing—
-Conscience within confessing
Nothing of ours is pure.
Still must such thoughts upbraid us,
Seeking our own to aid us;
God, not ourselves, hath made us;
Trusting in Him we’re sure.
Thus, from our sorrows gleaning
Thoughts of the world’s deep meaning,
Let us rejoice while leaning
Firm on our Father’s arm.
Now are we one for ever,
Joined so that none may sever,
Souls, so united, never
Faint through mischance or harm.

She lives in her own bubble - doing what she
deems best for her budding business - trying
to ignore things irking her into impatience -
yet resentment makes her ugly in expressions
of bitterness - invariably the cause is mother's
blithely yap-yap-yap way of talking
While everybody else just wants to get on with
their lives, drinking morning coffee in silence,
planning the day, ordering the workshop and
helping clients, while she has to face the one
who controls her with a hand of steel and she
has lost the will or ability to be friendly, to
Treat others with respect, no self-control left,
no good manners or etiquette, plain straight-
forward accusations and irrational actions to
put the blame on others - everybody else is
guilty except herself, she used this kind of
assistance once - now she pays eternally for
The privilege - a situation so negative in its
extreme I don't want to get caught in it, this
driving me about since I cannot drive myself,
this getting me involved so I can take over
from her - isn't working, I do not agree with
anything, there's nothing honest or
Real, nothing true or eternal in this - the
story changes to suit the protagonists and to
draw me in - but I am swimming away…

woke this morning
with many poems
swimming in my mind
some were bragging
doing naked backstroke
up and down a pool
others were driving
swimming in a river
cool underwater moves
still others were body surfing
swimming at the beach in the sea
happy they would be, if remembered by me...
but sadly with no time
to write a line before rushing
off to work, they shall forever cease to be...
Copyright © Terence George Craddock

Lagoon of swimming crocodiles
but
as tiny as sperm
glowing as yet
as the night stars that fell
on the sea's bosom.
owls that flew
through red boughs
and olive leaves
that was the sub-conscious
that was transformations
galore
that was dreaming
that was living
the other coin of life
the living

DRY
Noon's Saharan heat
sears the yellow fringe-toed sand skink.
Stinging simoom beats
sword dunes swept in serried bands.
Lizard's plunge is fleet,
swims beneath saltating tanned brink.
Sinusoidal whip's
subterranean dip.
WET
Should one chance to meet
supersaturated sand sinks,
Glide their surface sheets,
spread the body's weight, expand.
Stay unsettled feet,
float the span to countermand links.
Stirred suspensions grip,
skimmed solutions slip.

Swimming in the swimming pool
is where I like to 'B,'
wearing underwater goggles
so that I can 'C.'
Yesterday, before I swam,
I drank a cup of 'T.'
Now the pool is just an 'ool'
because I took a 'P.'

Swimming in the crystal water
Is a thing of joy,
There's the play of light
The tricks of the sun's ray
Like your love.
I love it but feel
Afraid as it may not help
Me float any time to
Get me drowned.
But, I can't leave this addiction
And can't stick to it.
Perhaps, I'll stay at the
Same state unless I
Leave this habit.

She tried to warn me
right from the start,
she said she had a friend
that had stolen her heart,
even though I was warned from the very beginning
I liked her so much I kept right on swimming,
I know winning her over would be tough to do
so, when she gave me an opening
I slipped right through,
Now that I'm in
the water seemed to have gotten deeper,
I'm not so sure
that she's a real keeper,
I think she swims along
plays her part,
but she can't 'feel'
because she doesn't have a heart,
I've even thought about backing off
so, maybe she could find
the soulmate she'd lost,
but I also know that she really needs me
and swimming away from her
isn't quite so easy,
but so often I ask myself
what role do I play
am I just another 'fish'
or am I standing in the way,
I hate being confused from one day to the next,
feels like I'm tangled up
in a fisherman's net,
a part of me would like to leave
and get out of the dark
but there's the other side
thats madly in love with the shark

In the grayness of a chilly November Dawn
The salmon are swimming up current to spawn
Of the Duhallow rivers as the flood does subside
The will to breed in them cannot be denied
Their lives are in danger at this time of year
As they run the gauntlet of the poachers gaff and spear
Some of them do die in the act of foul play
As victims of poachers which seems sad to say
And only the luckiest fish do survive
And make it back to the saltwater alive
From the predation of humans with luck on their side
In their spawning Season death they have defied
And will return to their birth river for to spawn next year
And run the gauntlet of the poachers gaff and spear.

‘You were swimming in cold water, ’
Said a Voice suddenly from
Behind the trees ‘and you are
Blue and that dangerously’
‘You are a goblin should I take
Advice of you? ’
‘Depends on you, free are you’
And disappeared
The goblin feet to back all
Suddenly
Then another Voice from a high
Bough tree
Said the same: ‘Beware! ’
Ended ‘the waters be enchanted’
And
I felt my red heart melting in me.

A dead crow lay still
A flock of crows gathered soon
Cries of sympathy floated.

If you ask for my sympathy,
all you’ll get is my apathy.
You drown in insecurity?
Guess what?  It doesn’t bother me!
I wonder...where were you my friend?
Where were you the time my heart bled?
Were you there with your hand to lend?
O right...with my girlfriend in bed!

My most precious gift of love I bestow to thee!
Decorated with the natural beauty of me!
Wrapped in kindness, sympathy and generosity!
Unclothed for all you to see the sweet truth of me! - Joshua Aaron Guillory

Show sympathy
Thursday, June 14,2018
6: 30 PM
It is God's grace
that you face
this cruel world
and yet remain in the main fold
Whether it is able body
Or with deformity
No one end's life
Even if it is full of strife
People take it as a challenge
And adjust to the growing age
Even though some people have born with no legs
They never lag behind
Some people have lost the hands
But life to them seems to be no end
I have seen the people working with legs
Writing, painting and even attaching the tags
Yes, society is also showing sympathy
They show empathy
And even rush to their help if needed
And show the gesture and they remain aided
Hasmukh Amathalal Mehta

This constant pain I’m not sure I can take it..
these consolatory words are enough to break me..
“just be stronger”…  and you’ll make it..
“think happier” and your internal world will change it…
there is no cure there is no treatment…
when I smile it’s because I fake it…
I want to see the last day through as someone who was there and unshaken..
I hide my feelings bury my tears..
tell them all there’s nothing to fear.. “I’m going to make it”..
but inside my lungs burn and my capillaries cry.. an iron rich fluid..
I know because too often I taste it..
“take a deep breath and calm your mind”…
sounds so serene and tranquil..
but as I breathe my lungs scream trying to expand against this ever tightening rubber band..
when finally it’s too much and my face is about to betray the pain that ravages and consumes my brain..
I move to deflate these natural balloons with such a horrid fate…
struggling to move these scores of molecules through airways that feel no bigger than a hair…
and as if this wasn’t already enough the medical bills pile up…
the vampire system reaches for the last clean slate you thought you’d save in case one day they told you you’re safe..
but it’s too late the trapper’s snare’s already determined your fate..

Sympathy the good word,
Reflecting the kindness
Showing the love to suffering
Sympathy a great feeling
Coming from depth of mind
Showing sympathy a quality
Of persons the personality depends.
To show sympathy who we are
only we can offer our service
The service to the needy
Where ever someone requires
Sympathy the word have a pride
The pride of helping hand
The receiving end helplessness.
Only we are entitled the service
Those to the needy always
Sympathy and service must go together.

If I were only a little puppy, not your baby, mother dear, would
you say "No" to me if I tried to eat from your dish?
Would you drive me off, saying to me, "Get away, you naughty
little puppy?"
Then go, mother, go! I will never come to you when you call
me, and never let you feed me any more.
If I were only a little green parrot, and not your baby,
mother dear, would you keep me chained lest I should fly away?
Would you shake your finger at me and say, "What an ungrateful
wretch of a bird! It is gnawing at its chain day and night?"
The go, mother, go! I will run away into the woods; I will
never let you take me in your arms again.

Now, dear, let's not quarrel anymore;
in fact, love, let me pour.
This is absolutely heavenly;
from what is it made?
It's a hearty herbal tissane
of belladonna, nightshade
and a soupcon of henbane.
So soothing, so light
I think I shall sleep well tonight.

They are afraid to be discovered,
As imbeciles!
So to avoid this exposure...
Laws were amended.
Rules were changed!
Quotas were enforced
To keep those deranged in control!
And even though everyone pays the price,
For their lack of knowledge and skill...
Or guidance with advice!
Those who have been subjected,
To this effective neglect that has affected respect...
Stand on the sidelines
Forced to hear them whine,
About every aspect of their sorrows!
With or without donated sympathy.
Hoping tomorrow...
Care packages of 'insight'
Is dropped by the tons from the sky!
'Let's keep out fingers crossed! '

Of one's responsibilities and of one's properties,
The day od clouds and thick darkness will meet us all;
But, copulation brings about the fertilization of the eggs.
To quicken your pace in this 'rat-race'!
With nods and grunts;
And like the legends of the Hidden City! !
But, you need to dicover your inner self as well on this love.
This thing called 'love' is eating you up!
And, you now need my romance to keep you going;
For, i am an eloquent teacher who wants to lead you on.

For some, you may be the candle
But for me, you are the light
That showed me how to handle
Even the daunting without fright
For some, your eyes may be warm
But for me, they are bright
They showed me the right platform
Leading me to a greater height
For some, you may be spring
But for me, you are the flowers
That groomed me little wings
To fly higher than the towers
For some, you may be a teacher
But for me, you are an angel
And angel whom I’ll never forget
But for now, it is ‘farewell’
(written for the best teacher that has ever taught me...my ex-class teacher...Reena Rajesh)
24th february,2009

One fine morning i went my school
To meet my teachers and friends
Saw what i never had seen in their
Totaly changed atmosphere!
A chapel was built in the ground
Additional constructions were in that.
Never think it could turned like this
I have re-collecting the olden days
Whare i saw my teacher Helda in the chapel
She prays not for her but for the dears
She is the lady of honour not only in the age
With her good heart too...

Books are confusing
.Exams are tentioning.
But u are never bussy
To make it easy
U help me find my fire
Though i was big liar
Dared to disciplined us
Though we were abandoned
We use swear words on ur back.
Still u show lack of anger on ur face.
Sometime strict to make us fit.
Cuz u are the best teacher in world.
Ur lil' appreciating words
Are like torn apart from heaven
In a hand of gift teacher
A class room is a magical placd
There's smile on each child's facd
So heaven never call them back
Cuz my teacher is best in world
Justin bieber cody simpson
Taylor swift greyson chance
All in side when my teacher is in sight.
Hipocrates, socrates
All are senseless
Shakespear william wordsworth
All are wordless
Dawn of each poets and scientist
Begins with teacher.
Without my teacher
They are voiceless.
Cuz my teacher is best in the world.
Hey teacher i want to give
U round of applause
Cuz u got us fell in love
With the books
That were never in our looks.
U deserve a standing ovation
Cuz u 're the act of forgiveness and love. My best friend.
That's why i say my teacher is
The BEST IN WORLD.
Thank you!

Oh teacher, Oh teacher!
My test isn't signed
Because somehow
My parents went blind
Now, don't say it's my fault,
They left their hands in the bank vault.
Oh teacher, Oh teacher
Do you know why
I was born without wings
And so cannot fly
Thus I am late
Didn't have breakfast,
So if you don't mind,
Pass me a plate.
Oh teacher, Oh teacher!
I've failed again
Please don't scold me,
Now  you'll see why,
I was thinking about
Having an eagle's brain.

With a caring mind and noble heart,
You teach us the life’s art.
Taking on a tough task,
You bring us on the life’s path.
Each day we see you,
We learn a new thing,
Which adds to our quality,
Like a little ding,
Inspired by your dignity, love and compassion.
Each time we come to you,  you act as a parent.
Each time we come to you,  you impart your talent.
You shape our personality, teach us the reality and
You build our confidence.
You took this path in your life,
To enlighten the path of ours,
Building up our life.
Teaching us attitudes,
And we pay with gratitude.
Without you we are not who we are,
Without you we are not what we are.
No words can express our thanks,
No gifts can express our gratitude,
Or the love that we have for you.
So, the least we can do is honor this day to every teacher to assure that,
You live in our hearts now and forever! !
Happy Teacher's Day!

Pat was the coolest teacher I ever knew.
My kids adored him.
He hated hypocrisy
and cant.
Pat loved kids.
Had two of his own
and a wife called Jan
whom he didn't like much.
Actually Pat didn't like ANY grown ups
very much.
He was belligerently left wing
(got into politics later)
Hated injustice
and most grown ups.
He used word conversations
to teach kids to read.
Let them use rude words too -
like bum and fart.
First time I saw him
he was covered with kids -
reading Mr Silly on the old couch.
He had a curly beard,
long hair tied in a rubber band
and blue eyes that really twinkled.
When he took the kids
to the local oval to play cricket
he always guaranteed a draw.
Said no one should take sport
too seriously.
Pat was the coolest teacher I ever knew.
My kids adored him.
He hated hypocrisy
and cant.
Some people said he was rude
(I suppose he was) .

Some drown in hydrolyzed clouds
Some fall with the rains’ wiping away
All progress made let fade into top soils
Wet bloody mud from trampling up the
King’s vaunted highway to that
End where order of tables care
For regeneration in my Grandson’s blood
All school seats taken are seats of despair
That I am here and you are there despite
The rules of passion and the roads
Of unenlightened homes where fair made
Immunities out of the comfort of our beds
My boy classified as one of the
Little People -an adorable youth
Observer at the recesses
His light is an observable new Advanced
Placement reflection on the theater of
Our roles on the stages of the comedies
Portrayed in crowded rooms full of
Achievers and audience participants
Some swim the firmament’s waters
To the ending catholic marathons.

What would life be
Without colours?
“I have no clue
What they look like”
Said Pushkar.
I have been
Blind
Since I was three.
His calm face
And confident pace
Showed his total
Acceptance.
He had an acute sense
And sometimes
While reading
To him
He would interrupt me
And say
‘Today you are not wearing a smile”
He could sense
My restlessness
Once in a while
At times
He too lost his composure
Naked with his emotions
Depressed about his future
And looked for solace
In his teacher.
Now he is a grown man
With a family of his own
And takes pride
That he can see
The world through their eyes.
He doesn’t believe
I learnt so much
Watching him evolve:
Hope, endurance,
Perseverance.

Thank you Lord for the glorious light,
That comes every morning, from the sun so bright.
Thank you Lord, for the evening breeze,
that from the heat brings blessed relief.
Thank you Lord for the wind that blows,
Thank you Lord for the grass that grows,
Thank you Lord for the evening sky,
Thank you Lord for the stars so high.
Thank you Lord, for the golden moon,
Thank you Lord for the flowers that bloom,
Thank you Lord for the oceans deep,
Thank you Lord for the tears we weep.
For the sunshine and the rain,
For the joy and for the pain,
Thank you Lord for what my eyes have seen,
Thank you Lord, for everything.
5/23/10 29 palms ca.

Just a few dwindling pools remain
in what was once the river bed.
Three years and more without rain.
Most of my livestock long since dead.
Yet still I have to struggle on
I have no choice no place to go
All of my men have packed and gone,
To where the deeper rivers flow.
Each evening I pray for rain
I won’t surrender to despair.
I’m not too old to start again.
No man can win who does not dare.
The storm clouds gather overhead.
Perhaps in answer to my prayer.
This time release much needed rain.
There’s water, water everywhere.
The river fills and overflows.
The arid earth drinks greedily.
The drought is over: Heaven knows
I’ve had my share of misery.
I face the future confident
That I can do what must be done
Determination and intent
are all I have I will go on.
I will build up my stock and then
I will employ some jackaroos.
To help me run the place again
much needed help that I can use.
But for the present work alone.
My nearest neighbour’s miles away
There is so much that must be done.
Enough to fill each working day.
When evening comes I will give thanks.
Unto my maker gratefully.
The river flows between its banks.
And all is as it ought to be.
09/07/2009
http: // blog.myspace.com.poeticpiers

Mental
Asylun
Not for me
Thanks
But no thanks
Because
I am not crazy
I suffer from depression
And that doesn't mean that I am crazy
I am not
Believe me

Afzal Shauq Has A Vision Of All The World.. By: -Tanvi Damle from India
_____________________________________________ ____
While browsing through poemhunter.com, I stumbled upon Mr. Afzal Shauq's profile. I read his first poem and was so amazed by his writing that i sat the whole say, reading through his amazing work.
Mr. Afzal Shauq..words fail me to describe this great man. All the poets wreck their minds over how to write but Mr Shauq, he's different because he thinks from his heart. Mr. Shauq has achieved something that millions of people like me can only dream of. He has a vision of all the world coming together as one whole country. Mr. Shauq wants the world to live as one. Mr. Shauq preaches in humanity and brotherhood.
According to Mr. Shauq the best weapon to fight a war is 'A Friendly Smile.' Isn't that a brilliant idea? We all dream of world peace and wish for wars to end. But that's about it, we don't do anything beyond that. The difference between Mr. Shauq and us is that he not only dreams of world peace but work's towards making the dream come true. And the best part is Mr. Shauq is not only making his dream come true but ours as well. He has the power to do it through his writing. He has something alot more than talent and what's amazing is that he uses his talent to promote world peace, something that's most important in today's world.
From his unique collection of poem's, inspite of me loving his each poem; there were a few that captured my heart the most. The poem‘ Global Peace Theory’ is one of them…
'Global Peace Theory' / Afzal Shauq
If and when the invincible book of norms is ignored?
If and when custom of humanity is burnt to dust?
Due to the wicked shadows of greed, lust and other evil doings,
We don’t have the right to be named as human beings.
Rather, we are brutal animals like vultures and crocodiles.
If we truly wish from the heart to be called humans of higher race,
Then we must not shrink when we are called “the children of Adam”.
For once we begin to consider ourselves as sons of Adam
Of this verdant mound, of this dry land, of this circling life –
Then we might also try to answer the ancient golden query of………
“Aren’t we cousins to each other? ” or “Aren’t we all brothers and sisters? ”
Hence, let’s all take initiatives to bridge up the gaps between hearts.
To connect all broken knots regardless of color, creed or race,
Via road to positivity, presenting cheerful aura of glowing smiles.
Respect to one another is a blooming string that ties warm cozy ends.
Letting social life be dance and sing melodiously with the collective actions.
Pleasing, filling, satisfying; the glaring shadows of humanity.
In which it has long been betrayed, jumped out of shell,
By the selfish wand and magnetic resonance of greed!
____
In the poem ‘Global Peace Theory’ Mr Shauq has sent out a rather meaningful message. In this poem Mr. Shauq is stressing on the way we human's behave. T he humanity is fading away every second. Human beings are given the power of understanding. But sadly they misuse it by plotting against each other. If so then do we have the right to call ourselves human beings of higher race? Mr. Shauq further quotes that let us all cross the boundaries of one's color, race, religion and country and let us all become a single united nation, filling our hears with nothing but peace
.
'A New Dawn' is yet another example of his amazing talent. Through this poem Mr. Shauq gives hope to millions of people around the world promising them a new dawn, making people's belief stronger
.
The way Mr. Afzal Shauq writes is beautiful, his writing is short, precise and to the point. Mr Shauq's poems always succeed in giving a powerful message to the world. Mr. Shauq's poems take us to a whole new world of peace and give us a ray of hope promising a peaceful future.
Tanvi Damle
INDIA

The flowers sent here by mistake,
signed with a name that no one knew,
are turning bad. What shall we do?
Our neighbor says they're not for her,
and no one has a birthday near.
We should thank someone for the blunder.
Is one of us having an affair?
At first we laugh, and then we wonder.
The iris was the first to die,
enshrouded in its sickly-sweet
and lingering perfume. The roses
fell one petal at a time,
and now the ferns are turning dry.
The room smells like a funeral,
but there they sit, too much at home,
accusing us of some small crime,
like love forgotten, and we can't
throw out a gift we've never owned.

I scavenged the thoughts,
Strained them from mind
Set them to the corner to take form
And I remembered...
I remembered falling down steps
And off trees:
Sometimes being pushed off,
Sometimes merely slipping,
All the same- falling.
I remembered falling a lot.
I remembered sitting in class
Trying to learn some maths
And feeling a touch
Like of a nursing child
Pulling on my shirt, exploring,
What hasn’t been seen before;
The hole from the nail in the door
When I had passed too close…
Yeah, I froze like a ghost.
Hoping not to be seen.
Shame placed me in the hole
And put me on the stage
And shined light in my eyes
And I was seen… me and my shirt.
I remember it well;
It was blue with dragons.
Aunt Vadlyn – my mother’s sister-
Bought it for me, two Easters past,
I wanted it to last,
So I kept it, though it was torn
And slightly over worn –
It was part of the handful I had.
I hated when mother would bring
What might seem, everything,
For everyone,
But her daughters and sons.
The neighbors got theirs.
The workers got theirs.
From the little we had,
I was always behind the fad.
My shirt kept me afloat,
But, the hole and the poke
Were much like,
A sea, the ocean at whole
Trying to get it;
I wanted to drown,
The dead has no shame.
The dead had no shame.
The next week
I wore my shirt again
In the regular order
And she didn’t poke,
No one saw the hole.
I didn’t remember
It even. All was good.
Now as a man,
With money of my own,
Though not plenty-
Enough to buy shirts-
I still wear those with holes,
But now without shame;
Thank you mama.
Copyright © 2010 Leslie Alexis

Thank you for being here.
to help me and console me.
You brighten my day
and you take away
my fears
and my tears.

MY FATHER SAID
ALONG LONG TIME AGO
HE SAID SON TAKE A GOOD LOOK AROUND
AND SEE HOW BEAUTIFUL THIS LAND IS
AND DON'T LET ANYONE BRING IT DOWN
BECAUSE THIS IS YOUR HOME
ONCE MY HOME UNTIL I GOT ILL
BUT BEFORE I DIE
AND YOU BURY ME UNDER THIS HILL
LET ME TELL YOU A STORY
WHEN I WAS LOOKING FOR A PLACE
TO CALL HOME
I WOULD WALK MILES
UNTIL I FOUND A SPOT TO DIG
AND I WAS GONNA BUILD IT
ON MY OWN
BUILD IT ON THIS GREAT LAND
AND I WILL BUILD IT
WITH THESE HANDS
AND WHEN I'M DONE
GONNA HANG THE FLAG SO HIGH
SO ALL COULD SEE
WHO EVER MIGHT COME
LET FREEDOM STILLS LIVES
THE WAY OUR FOUNDING FATHERS
WANTING IT TO BE
AND STILL TILL THIS DAY
WE ARE STILL FREE
THANKS TO THE MAN
AND WOMEN
WHO FOUGHT AND GAVE UP THERE LIVES
FOR US TO STAY FREE
THE WAY OUR FOUNDING FATHERS
WANTING IT TO BE
SO SON BE PROUD OF YOUR HOME
BUT MOST OF ALL YOUR FREEDOM

Is it the tear measures hate and love?
Is it the laughter gages one’s kindness?
Is it the fame evaluates the popularity?
Or is it the failure determines the necessity?
If there’s no end
How to determine the beginning?
If there’s no ugly
How to assess the beautiful?
If there’s no excellent
How to distinguish the fool?
If there’s no big
How can we notice small?
i will post even if this is unfinished...thnks for all...

Once, at night, in the manor wood
My Love and I long silent stood,
Amazed that any heavens could
Decree to part us, bitterly repining.
My Love, in aimless love and grief,
Reached forth and drew aside a leaf
That just above us played the thief
And stole our starlight that for us was shining.
A star that had remarked her pain
Shone straightway down that leafy lane,
And wrought his image, mirror-plain,
Within a tear that on her lash hung gleaming.
"Thus Time," I cried, "is but a tear
Some one hath wept 'twixt hope and fear,
Yet in his little lucent sphere
Our star of stars, Eternity, is beaming."

Gently on the stream of time,
We are floating day by day,
In life's native boats sublime
We soon anchor in the bay.
We'll soon anchor in the haven,
Where the weary are at rest,
In that blissful port called Heaven,
Where are roaming now the blest.
CHORUS:
Be gentle, time be gentle with us,
While we are on life's troubled stream,
May life's foaming billows o'er us
Break away as day serene.
Gently on the stream of time,
We will swiftly glide along,
Till we reach the realm divine,
Then we'll join the heavenly throng,
Where our friends have gone before us
Waiting on the other shore.
In that home they sing in chorus,
"Welcome home the rich and poor."
Gently on the stream of time,
We shall shortly pass away,
We shall reach the heavenly clime
If God's commands we obey.
Gently on the stream of time
We are going one by one,
Listening to the evening chime
On life's journey going home.

Never the time and the place
And the loved one all together!
This path--how soft to pace!
This May -- what magic weather!
Where is the loved one's face?
In a dream that loved one's face meets mine,
But the house is narrow, the place is bleak
Where, outside, rain and wind combine
With a furtive ear, if I strive to speak,
With a hostile eye at my flushing cheek,
With a malice that marks each word, each sign!
O enemy sly and serpentine,
Uncoil thee from the waking man!
Do I hold the Past
Thus firm and fast
Yet doubt if the Future hold I can?
This path so soft to pace shall lead
Thro' the magic of May to herself indeed!
Or narrow if needs the house must be,
Outside are the storms and strangers: we
Oh, close, safe, warm sleep I and she, --
I and she!

Life is shifting time to time
As from birth to death we do
We work whole day and take rest
Birds search nest at evening.
Who stays on rent or leaves old
Home is searched to establish
Some feel nice in villages near
Some search town and some cities.
Shifting is associated with habit
In migration we see necessity sure
Life changes and dazzles in search
Some do not attach mind in world.
Shifting of mind from the dark
This proceeds towards pure light
To revive faith and establish
We look forward God's wisdom sure.

High above, sitting on his ledge, to himself he is to think.  I am neither nor am I heard.  I am as ghost.  I try and I try, oh how hard I do try, but I must, I mustn’t cry, but now instead his hazel eyes grow moist.  A heavy line and scarred face is stained by years.
Such a said faith for this one of light, personally known for the slayings of both the serpent and a dragon, should have never become one of the fallen.
Children need never suffer, but pain is so much a part of this child’s life.  Pain, his unwanted friend, in a sense his religion, and in death he hopes they will part.
A body that has long been broken, as he is to lay, his body he has now split open.  The blade is then tossed away as an unwanted token.  Blood flows now, as the darkest of wines from a child who did nothing but shine.
Sleep he must, ashes to ashes.  Drifting off he prays to his Gods and Angels to take him to a special time and place he once knew of long ago.  Dusk to dusk, in this sleep he must trust.
My a rose hear of his name, the fruit has fallen from the vine, for it has been said, that of which has been lost may never be saved!
Eyes closed, in his sleep, he is to speak a name, and that name is Payne.  True the shadow would, cut off the mist one has come.  The figure approaching is that of a female, a beautiful female in fact.  A sprit of an angel has arrived, the angel known as Payne, and she has come to get by her loved one’s side.  For here was a very special love between these two children.  Upon her passing from the physical to the next, from the next she had become his guardian angel.
Kneeling besides her special one, speaking softly.  No, no what have you done, not like this, not like this.  Then screaming out, calling to the Elder known as Further, Further why have you let this happen, why have you all let this happen why.  You will answer me Further, why let this happen.
Sands of time slips from hands of has one who sleeps.  Now she weeps her tears.  She sweeps away from her cheeks.
Payne, a voice from the shadows is to say.  It is not yet too late to save, Payne you can save your special one from the grave.
The love you feel for him all know, stop the blood flow, mend his wounded wings, tie with a bow, but then you must not go, this time yourself you must show, to him this time yourself you must show.
My child Payne, now you must please listen to me.  The children were never meant to suffer, but some do.  You know of this first hand as you yourself are one of the light.  The child besides you, this one of light was always meant to fight, this one, to the evil ones is to install fright, for the children of the light have always kept what is true and right.  So my angel Payne, mend his broken wings so again he may take flight.  I go now Payne.
Wait further wait she is to say, but nothing, not another word from Further is to be heard.
Payne is to hold the sleeping one gently in her delicate arms, spoken are words just so soft.
Love, it is I Payne, your wounds with a bow I did tie, please I beg of you, on me you mustn’t die.  Love of mine, you mustn’t go to the pine, instead brighter than the sun, moon and stars you may shine.
Never surrender, surrender not to the pretender.  Great bird of prey, my love falcon, your wings I did cure, together again we shall sore, falcon a fallen one you are no more.
I have a kiss for you, for my love has always been true.  Now my beauty you will take, my breath you take.  Falcon I need you to awake.  Falcon I beg of you awake, please awake!
In the shadows, elder Further is to quietly whisper to himself.  It is this one, who possess the light, this child in his darkest of hours will yield the most destructive of powers and this he does for all of ours!
By: Anthony Rubino

Time and time again,
lives in every plane.
Flying and retiring,
it seems to gain. When
we have time it's inclined
to disappear then reappear,
as time has its own time.

It was not in the Winter
Our loving lot was cast;
It was the time of roses—
We pluck'd them as we pass'd!
That churlish season never frown'd
On early lovers yet:
O no—the world was newly crown'd
With flowers when first we met!
'Twas twilight, and I bade you go,
But still you held me fast;
It was the time of roses—
We pluck'd them as we pass'd!

Time has no conclusion
it will never terminate
Time waits for nobody
seems we are always late
In our dimension
of eternity
Time is our future
and its Infinity
back to present day
the hours transcend
the seconds hop by
Time is our friend
So as time ticks by
and the young become
Old, pull up your sock's
And wind your clock's

Time was upon
The wing, to fly away;
And I call'd on
Him but awhile to stay;
But he'd be gone,
For aught that I could say.
He held out then
A writing, as he went,
And ask'd me, when
False man would be content
To pay again
What God and Nature lent.
An hour-glass,
In which were sands but few,
As he did pass,
He shew'd,--and told me too
Mine end near was;--
And so away he flew.

I saw her by the bus stop
and she glanced  my way
she gave me such a pretty smile
it took my breath away
I knew I couldn't say hello
the struggle what to do
I'd never know what you were like
a stranger passing through
Do you ever think of me
as I have thought of you
wonder what sights we'd have seen
if we had stopped to view
crazy how the little things
and chances slip away
another one, another life
another day today.

I think I've been in love with you
Since the dawn of love first bloomed
For as long as the wind has whispered words;
Conversing with the moon
I think I'll stay in love with you
For the sake of morning dew
That glimmers, gleams, and glistens bright;
Reminding me of you
I think I’ll be in love with you
Even when it's not brand new
From today, through every tomorrow
Till it's time to say adieu

If I were twenty-one today,
I think I'd dance the night away.
I'd drink champagne and polish off
Half a bottle of the best Smirnoff.
I'd carry on till the night had flown
And trust my friends to carry me home.
My coming of age they'd never forget
Nor I remember, you can bet.
(For Tiffany Etter)

Just for today I will open my eyes and thank the Universe for one more day
Just for today I will look in the mirror and find one thing I like about myself
Just for today I will smile at a stranger in the traffic
Just for today I will greet someone I don't particularly like - and mean it
Just for today I will sing a song and not care if I am off key or who hears
Just for today I will do something I want to do, no matter what anyone else thinks
Just for today I will give someone a word of affirmation - not because I have to, but because I want to
Just for today I will be grateful for who I have in my life, not what I have
Just for today I will say a sincere thank you if I receive a compliment and not joke it away
Just for today I will do each task to the best of my ability
Just for today I will hug someone
Just for today I will tell someone I love that I love them
Just for today I will appreciate having a job, a bed and food
Just for today I will appreciate the beautiful colours of the sunset
Just for today I will be grateful for one more day that was undeserved, one more day that was lived to the full, one more day to love and be loved, one more day to be me

The family norm is small and risks are high;
The busy parents pamper, pet and spoil;
The children never knowing truly why;
They fret and fume and burn the midnight-oil.
And children too are never satisfied;
Fast foods, bad lifestyles make them ill and weak;
In parental guidance, they don’t abide;
And help of God, they never seem to seek,
The modern child wishes to be on own;
And in the process, blunders so often;
To elderly advice, it seems to frown;
And lands in vices, amidst evil men.
If parents are not strict to rear a child,
It grows to be a flower in the wild.
6-10 -2002 by Dr John Celes

The modern world’s one main disease is stress!
The kind of life we lead, can most depress;
The policies on health are in a mess;
One man attempts the other to suppress.
The one with lesser talents doth impress;
The modern gadgets make all labor less;
How do you curb population’s excess,
And people gain favors through their largess?
Where is today, the freedom of the press?
Each day, they introduce a newer cess!
Revealing body-parts is now the dress;
That Doomsday’s nigh is but anyone’s guess.
More souls are denied Heaven’s ingress;
The common man, his feelings can’t express.

Today I saw a Hedgehog
A funny looking thing
He crept across the lawn outside
As I sat watching him
He snuffled through the leaves and grass
His nose twitched like a snake
And then he stopped quite suddenly
As he came across a rake
At first he rolled into a ball
Quite comical to see
Then slowly poked his head out
And I'm sure he winked at me
Once more he turned towards the rake
Who's spines looked somewhat higher
And slowly moved toward it
With what to me, looked like desire
First he nudged it with his nose
Then rubbed against the prongs
Then getting no reaction
Seemed to sense that somethings wrong
And then he tried to mount it
But that just came to grief
And shuffled off indignantly
Which came as some relief
And so I've learned a moral
From this hedgehog in his teens
Things that we take for granted
Are not always as they seem.

If ever there were a spring day so perfect, so uplifted by a warm intermittent breeze

I love you not because what you are
but also for your deep love and thoughts for me
Your love fills my heart with meanings
and bring my emotion melting in your arms
When you are close to me then my worries disappear
and exchange of our love makes my heart strong
I didn't know the power of love until it showered from you
and you made me to understand what is love and be loved
Today, I am falling in love with you every single moment
Your heart leads me to your thoughts and senses
and tells me to tie my heart at night with yours
When morning comes then I wake up with your thoughts
and I recollect my dreams which I have buried with you
Brings me a smile on my face and rushing to hold you
and find my day is not enough to be with you in love
Hope you will understand that I cannot live with out you
and today you are everything to me.

Let us spend a few moments together,
the holidays won’t last for ever,
the promises we made to finish up the house chores,
will be our New Year's resolution for the next year.
Let us spend a few moments together,
let us feel each others pains together,
let us look in each others eyes,
let us rediscover the lost love in our hearts.
Let us spend a few moments together,
our long relationship has made our dreams stale,
let us share the soft touch of red roses of our love,
let us walk hand in hand together adoring the surf on the beach.
Let us spend a few moments together,
let us not worry about driving to popular places and beating the crowds,
let us sit close together and look at the stars in night skies,
let us really relive this life together.

I hung the decorations
and I trimmed the christmas tree.
What really means the most of all
is that you're here with me.
You make the season special
without spending lots of dough.
Your neverending friendship
means more than you could know.
I can't say what it means to me
to share this special time.
I thank God for another year
that He's let you be mine.
Let's deck the halls and celebrate
with family and friends.
But, lets take time for you and me
before the season ends.

Neither the sun at noon
Or the soft breeze at dusk
Nor the dizzying midnight moon
Is required when I see you smile,
I’m child-like beside you,
Always whispering love
Into your ear,
Wanting you to hear
The rhythm of my heartbeats,
Never doubt what you mean to me,
I saw you growing up,
Adorable and dream-like and laughing
With your older sister,
And I cannot resist saying
Time has been your ally,
Your beautiful, feminine mystique
Only increases with intensity,
I know we’ll be together again
On café streets
Reciting sacred poetry
As small birds serenade us
On an avenue of trees.

The fisherman has caught a frog...
The poor cried:
- I am a princess bewitched...
Kiss me...    kiss......
The fisherman has put in  pocket...
Muttered still so:
- At my age it is better - the frog....
Which can speaks...
12.12.08

His eyes are fixated on her soul
Her scent lingers on his clothes
Her lips want nothing more than a kiss
His hands want nothing else but her
With nothing to say is every word
They're meant to be forever entwined
No matter the scene no matter the world
T'was love at first sight no plan no time
The beauty inside is for eyes he holds
Behind his looks what her heart desires
Only had he ever lusted and dreamt
Until this day she's in his arms
Didn't want her for lust or her sight
He wanted her heart he knew t'was right
He questioned not once on how he felt
He knew t'was love and nothing else
So pure and so gentle he'd never pick fights
Unless t'was for his lover his wife
Met young and grew old together hand in hand
They found their love in a grain of sand
It came out of nothing though some may say
It came from the stars where the moon doth lay
It came from their life their love in their hearts
Apassion in soul a love in an art
Together and always
Soulmates forever
Monday 22nd September 2008

together and forever
best friends forever
ti'll the day we die
which should be never
together and forever
we do everything together
but i know
we go through things
we hate
and that we love
what we do together
wont last forever
ti'll the day
we die together! ! !

We  play  together
We  laugh  together,
We  smile  together,
We  love  together
and  now  that  you're  gone
it  will  never be  forever!

I could never be without you in our lives,
Because you are our life.
We are on a long voyage, a journey, a path that is uncharted.
There are hills that will tire us and valleys that will amaze us,
Cliffs that will frighten us and oceans that will almost overwhelm us,
There will be times for resting and healing our wounds
And time for working to just make it through,
We will ache and face sorrows,
As well as celebrate triumphs,
Some nights will be dark with nothing to guide us,
Others bright, as the moon will shine on us,
Days that are frigid that chill our deep bones,
Followed by afternoon breezes that warm our souls,
We will take turns, One can lead and one can follow
filling the other when hopes seem so hollow.
Mount Everest is a beast but well worth the climb
as life is a tower, we must follow time.
Today may not be the same as tomorrow,
it may bring us hope or it may bring us sorrow.
But one thing I know that I can assure you,
I promise you this, I never will leave you,
I may fall behind, or get far ahead,
But I will always wait, or catch up instead.
We are partners traveling together.
Even if we get lost we will still be in good company...

WE two boys together clinging,
One the other never leaving,
Up and down the roads going--North and South excursions making,
Power enjoying--elbows stretching--fingers clutching,
Arm'd and fearless--eating, drinking, sleeping, loving,
No law less than ourselves owning--sailing, soldiering, thieving,
threatening,
Misers, menials, priests alarming--air breathing, water drinking, on
the turf or the sea-beach dancing,
Cities wrenching, ease scorning, statutes mocking, feebleness
chasing,
Fulfilling our foray.

angkor wat
granny climbs top sanctuary
to pray to buddha
still stunning  and waiting
at angkor wat corridors
heavenly nymphs
crushing and holding
angkor thom temple
roots of trees

SWALLOWS travel to and fro,
And the great winds come and go,
And the steady breezes blow,
Bearing perfume, bearing love.
Breezes hasten, swallows fly,
Towered clouds forever ply,
And at noonday, you and I
See the same sunshine above.
Dew and rain fall everywhere,
Harvests ripen, flowers are fair,
And the whole round earth is bare
To the moonshine and the sun;
And the live air, fanned with wings,
Bright with breeze and sunshine, brings
Into contact distant things,
And makes all the countries one.
Let us wander where we will,
Something kindred greets us still;
Something seen on vale or hill
Falls familiar on the heart;
So, at scent or sound or sight,
Severed souls by day and night
Tremble with the same delight -
Tremble, half the world apart.

Baja Mexico
the whales are appetisers
for the eyes
Baja Mexico
between each swirl of the paddles
our excitements
Baja Mexico
our laughters join
the waves
Mexico
If there is an ideal sea kayaking destination, Baja Mexico may be it. The water is warm, the wildlife is varied and abundant, and there are countless inlets and beaches to explore. A group of quality outfitters leads kayak trips to Baja year-round, though most tours are conducted during Mexico's warm winters. Some tours focus on wildlife and whale-watching, while others emphasize exploration of remote coves and out-of-the-way beaches.

Pink Sand Beach yoga
on and on I chant with the sea
seeking nirvana
Pink Sand Beach yoga
on and on i chant with the sea
seeking peace in the mind
Pink Sand Beach yoga
on and on I chant with the sea
to calm the tempest in my mind
Pink Sand Beach yoga
between the pink sand and
the blue sea, my nirvana
Pink Sand Beach yoga
on and on the sea chants too
seeking nirvana
Pink Sand Beach yoga
i sat on a pink lotus looking to
the horizon longing nirvana
Why settle for white sand when you can have a little color? Several places in the Caribbean have pink beaches, but the most iconic is on Harbour Island. The strawberry ice cream color comes from shells of microscopic marine organisms. The aptly-named Pink Sand Beach stretches most of the island's three-mile eastern shore, where sunrises are spectacular and an offshore coral reef tempers the surf.

Outer Banks
miles and miles and miles
of the Atlantic
Outer Banks
as we walk and talk, the Atlantic
stretches and roars
Outer Banks
accompanying us - the Atlantic
creation song
Lining the North Carolina coast, the Outer Banks consists of barriers of sand 130 miles long and never more than a few miles wide. These islands serve as welcome mats to the Atlantic and all her treasures. Forage the sea for a bounty of bill fish, wahoo, and mahi mahi, or walk the wild dunes, a naturalist's playground. Close to 400 species of birds, from native Carolina wrens to wintering bald eagles, can be found here, along with otters and sea turtle colonies. Add four lighthouses and you have yourself a seaworthy destination that even a pirate like Blackbeard (a former resident)could call home.

Cape Town
as drunken and lost
as ancient seafarers
South Africa
South Africa has 14 traversable wine routes and over 2,000 varieties of wine. While most visitors venture out to the wine country on day trips from Cape Town, you can spend many heady weeks tasting your way through the Cape, a jaunt made all the easier by outfitters available that specialize in the wines of South Africa.

White Mountain hike
our breathing expansive
as the mountains
White Mountain last huts
their  remoteness keeps
our feet going
White Mountain Hut
herbalist asks chef to
cook his pluckings
White Mountain
our laughters trail
the ranges
What better way to end a long day of hiking than to sit down to a hot, full-course meal? In summer, seven of the eight Appalachian Mountain Club's White Mountain Huts are full service, meaning hut crews will prepare you dinner while you relax. If you can't hit all the huts on the weeklong 60-mile route, spend a long weekend hiking to Greenleaf and Galehead, the most remote of the sky-scraping huts, which afford expansive views of New Hampshire's mountains.

I should like to rise and go
Where the golden apples grow;--
Where below another sky
Parrot islands anchored lie,
And, watched by cockatoos and goats,
Lonely Crusoes building boats;--
Where in sunshine reaching out
Eastern cities, miles about,
Are with mosque and minaret
Among sandy gardens set,
And the rich goods from near and far
Hang for sale in the bazaar;--
Where the Great Wall round China goes,
And on one side the desert blows,
And with the voice and bell and drum,
Cities on the other hum;--
Where are forests hot as fire,
Wide as England, tall as a spire,
Full of apes and cocoa-nuts
And the negro hunters' huts;--
Where the knotty crocodile
Lies and blinks in the Nile,
And the red flamingo flies
Hunting fish before his eyes;--
Where in jungles near and far,
Man-devouring tigers are,
Lying close and giving ear
Lest the hunt be drawing near,
Or a comer-by be seen
Swinging in the palanquin;--
Where among the desert sands
Some deserted city stands,
All its children, sweep and prince,
Grown to manhood ages since,
Not a foot in street or house,
Not a stir of child or mouse,
And when kindly falls the night,
In all the town no spark of light.
There I'll come when I'm a man
With a camel caravan;
Light a fire in the gloom
Of some dusty dining-room;
See the pictures on the walls,
Heroes fights and festivals;
And in a corner find the toys
Of the old Egyptian boys.

a 'grand' way to remember
Yuanshan Grand Hotel?
a broken coffee cup and a
waitress who asked for money
before the guest is even done with his food
Yuanshan Haiku
Yuanshan cold nostalgia
fading at a forlorn corner
Soong May Ling's smile
The hotel must have been a sad memory for late Soong Mei Ling.  Me too. A coffee cup broke and worse, a waitress asked for money before even I finished with my food. I just wonder how an internationally known hotel can have such 'unthinkable' service. They trained them in Chiang Kai Shek's army?
.

I  found a damsel in distress
Wearing  a tattered torn aqua dress
tears flowed sadly down her face
She was a picture of beauty and grace
I held her close and gently squeezed tight
I told her everything would be alright
A fallen  priest fondled and raped this teenage girl
Took away her innocence, introduced her to the real world
I was much older than this gentle creature
But I knew I could never leave her
We married and moved away from Montreal
Perhaps a new city would break the fall
She was introduced to many new friends her age
But her eyes displayed an inside rage
A dismal, dark and gloomy day
Would etch  pain in my heart to stay
Today I found my gentle, quiet dear
Hanging from our kitchen chandelier
Her mind was ruined by a heartless act
She could no longer face the gruesome facts
Now she lays in quiet sleep
In God’s hands, her soul will keep.
Written:  Dec.31/07

HOPE
Hope is there in the beginning and the end
Hope is there when you gain a friend
Hope is a gift, a scientific break threw
Hope is what I feel when I’m with you
TRUST
Trust is a gift that we should treasure
Trust is a weight as light as a feather
Trust was not a thing I knew
Until I found trust in you
TIME
There is time to cherish
There is time to feel
But most of all there is time to heal

Love is trust
even when it comes to lust.
That feeling of butterflies
dont make up for all your lies.
You lose the trust when you cheat
it makes me feel defeat.
Trust in love
because its as rare as a dove.
When we get in a fight
in the middle of the night
dont tell me that you love me
that doesnt make everything all right.
Love is Not sex
expecially when its in a text.
Phone sex dont count
I hardly know what its about.
Screw your fondling
it dont do a damn thing.
Love is sticking together
no matter what the weather
Love is holding me tight
in the middle of the night.

The God who brought you up to this extent,
Has other plans for you in future too;
So, never doubt his mysterious intent;
He does what’s best and when ’tis time for you.
Go, put your trust in God and do all things;
The future is promisingly brighter;
There is no better choice for us, earthlings;
God makes our earthly burdens seem lighter.
So, pray with all your mind and soul and heart;
God is ready to help His loved creatures;
Just do your duty; God will do His part;
Love your enemies; pray for your preachers.
Give God His rightful place; nothing goes wrong;
And if it does sometimes, sing Him a song.
8-29-2002

You do all you can, to make it on your own
And you need someone, will feeling all along
God will bring you through the storm and the rain
Just keep you head up high, and the sun will shine again
Just Trust in Him
Believe
Just Trust in Him
Hold on Tight
Just Trust in Him
Believe
Just Trust in Him
Everything will be alright
Life can get hard, but you made it this far
If you trust him, when theirs noone else around
I know this, because I lost my way
Just keep the faith, because tomorrow's another day
Just Trust in Him
Believe
Just Trust in Him
Hold on Tight
Just Trust in Him
Believe
Just Trust in Him
Everything will be alright
God will pick you up, when trials come your way
It may seem hard, you can't make it through day
That's when you just have to say
Please Restore Me, When I Pray
Just Trust in Him
Just Trust in Him
Just say it's o.k
Just say o.k

What have I done to lose your trust?
Can you please explain to me...
Why is it that you seem to think
I'm trying to break free?
I don't yearn for my freedom.
I feel free in your arms.
Don't let those thoughts control you.
I'm aware of all lifes harms.
You'll never be forsaken.
I'll always remain true.
It hurts me when you don't believe...
I'm forever loving you.
I feel the pain you're feeling
but, I am not to blame.
It's just jealous emotions.
I love you just the same.
I won't give in to jealousy.
You know me way too well.
My loyalty won't falter
surely you can tell.
You don't need to be worried
of things you cannot see.
You gained a wife forever
the day you married me.

he used to love you so much,
slowly, when u said you hate to rush,
yes, he followed all your decisions,
to recognize the flow you follow,
so that he can love you the way you wanted,
with a pure heart, without any bad intentions.
you were very lucky to have had fallen in love with him,
cuz every second you spend with him, he counted,
cuz when you're with him, all the grey clouds are nowhere to be seen,
cuz when giving you his everything, he never hesitated.
you and him, started out wonderfully,
so perfect that people was so envy of your relationship,
everybody, even your best of friends you thought you could believe,
spread rumours that caused you to trust them more than him,
he was so dissapointed even though he loved you, it seems.
you slapped his face for something he didn't do,
then he ran back to his home and cried cuz thinking of you,
he thought you trusted him as much as he did,
he thought he had loved you as much as you needed.
at the end, you found out that the rumours were untrue,
sad and worried that he will hurt himself,
you drove so fast in hopes of finding him,
but suddenly, a huge and fast truck, you ran into,
and the last thing you saw was his beam.
you let the memories fade away,
but that was what he always hope not to happen,
he still misses you until today,
and hopes to see you then in heaven...

I trust the night
I trust the stars that shine
I trust the moon
I know its love’s divine
I trust the wind
I trust its winding ways
I trust the sky
I know its separate days
I trust the dawn
I trust its rising light
I trust the sun
I know its blinding sight
I trust the clouds
I trust the crimson waves
I trust the things I love
I know that this trust saves Me.

so many things are said,
so little of them done,
yet trust me?
so hard to do,
please do not say that,
it hurts more,
than any truth could,
you have ruined,
my trust in people,
my trust in friends,
say what you mean,
say it to my face,
do not play those little games,
because;
one day you will,
take it too far,
and i will snap back,
and trust ME,
you will not get up.

Waiting for the train, listening
to the blackbird singing
across the railway line
I whistled a musical game with it
of call and response,
variations, show-off riffs;
the blackbird listened,
held its head a little to one side,
crisply hopped onto the iron rail
and I thought myself mighty clever
as we played our musical game, and
it flew across the line, a few yards nearer,
swiftly, with clear intention
onto the platform two yards from me
and the whole world turned on me
as I realised I had no idea
whether it was playing at
blackbird makes friends with man
or whether it was planning
a swift dart at this rival’s eyes
and I felt humble, stupid, ashamed, and yes scared,
to have intruded in this blackbird’s life;
stopped whistling, turned away
and pretended it was just a game,
knowing now
it wasn’t.

Bloom could the cherries no more,
The haste that burdened,
Made visionary the sight,
Restrictions frequent but pure,
Had not known,
The cold bare winter tree,
That stood all day long,
To which history had shared the secret.
Once it happened so,
A bird wingless sought shelter too,
For the black ghosty witch had entered,
And into the button staid eyes,
The irony lay, the heart shivered,
Till the fear traveled and made cold the bones,
The weighty burden was carried,
Until downloading lightened the shoulders,
The sky shone making the air sweet,
And the lips smiled with the curves of joy,
All was seen a rare truth of dependent history.

If truth in hearts that perish
Could move the powers on high,
I think the love I bear you
Should make you not to die.
Sure, sure, if stedfast meaning,
If single thought could save,
The world might end to-morrow,
You should not see the grave.
This long and sure-set liking,
This boundless will to please,
--Oh, you should live for ever,
If there were help in these.
But now, since all is idle,
To this lost heart be kind,
Ere to a town you journey
Where friends are ill to find.

When the darkness creeps in,
And I can feel the cool wind breathing on the back of my neck,
I think of you to keep sane,
My life
My steady rock.
Then sleep overwhelms me,
And things are happening which I do not control,
Although being aware that I am only sleeping,
I can not force myself to wake,
I can not move,
The fear is overwhelming,
I’m frozen
Unable to move
Unable to scream
Unable to even close my eyes.
So I have to watch,
Unable to do anything to save you,
Blood once innocent flows free,
Suddenly there are other people around while all of this is happening,
But they’re not helping you
They’re not even looking at you
They’re looking at me
Looking with dark accusing eyes
‘How could you let this happen’
How could I let this happen
Again.

Truth is a golden thread, seen here and there
In small bright specks upon the visible side
Of our strange being's parti-coloured web.
How rich the universe! 'Tis a vein of ore
Emerging now and then on Earth's rude breast,
But flowing full below. Like islands set
At distant intervals on Ocean's face,
We see it on our course; but in the depths
The mystic colonnade unbroken keeps
Its faithful way, invisible but sure.
Oh, if it be so, wherefore do we men
Pass by so many marks, so little heeding?

Rosa's are red Violets are blue Demo's are gay and Republicans are ture

Ahimsa is the dazzling Truth
Attained through Non-violence,
Accepted by all scriptures of this world,
Adhered to by all wise men of this world!
Truth has no barricades or boundaries,
Truth has no barbaric barrels,
Truth and Ahimsa-a fine confluence- A
Total merger of benevolence!

Truth! I shall speak you if I am in habit of listening to you,
Truth! If the society in that I am living cannot listen to you, I shall remain silent.
Truth! I know you are bitter but I shall taste you,
Truth! You are a poisonous wine but I shall drink you.
Truth! If you are my dream bring a Joseph to interoperate it,
Truth! If you are Joseph's beloved I shall love dreaming you.
Truth! If you are love I am ready to die being insane for you,
Truth! I promise I shall not held you responsible for my death.
Truth! If you are a reality why you appear as a superstition?
Truth! Though I am your image but I shall not hide myself behind the screens of lies.

Secrets are secret
Truth cannot expound
Everything is vanity
No comfort to be found
Truth is relative
or so it is, they say
Life for us is short
no time to dry the hay
What Truth will illumine
Lies would then conceal
with ebony tusks uncover
wounds that would not heal

see that woman
flung over her son's dead body
howling from the depths
of her womb
what has she
to do with war
or war with her?
*        *      *
if all the mothers in the world
denied war in their mind
and in their speech
what would happen
in the mind of men?
what is the powerful
compared with the power? *
(* ancient belief: man is the power-ful, woman the power)

I
Last year I called this world of gain-givings
The darkest thinkable, and questioned sadly
If my own land could heave its pulse less gladly,
So charged it seemed with circumstance whence springs
The tragedy of things.
II
Yet at that censured time no heart was rent
Or feature blanched of parent, wife, or daughter
By hourly blazoned sheets of listed slaughter;
Death waited Nature's wont; Peace smiled unshent
From Ind to Occident.

AMONGST THE HIGHLY PLACED
It is considered low to talk about food.
The fact is:  they have
Already eaten.
The lowly must leave this earth
Without having tasted
Any good meat.
For wondering where they come from and
Where they are going
The fine evenings find them
Too exhausted.
They have not yet seen
The mountains and the great sea
When their time is already up.
If the lowly do not
Think about what's low
They will never rise.
THE BREAD OF THE HUNGRY HAS
ALL BEEN EATEN
Meat has become unknown.  Useless
The pouring out of the people's sweat.
The laurel groves have been
Lopped down.
From the chimneys of the arms factories
Rises smoke.
THE HOUSE-PAINTER SPEAKS OF
GREAT TIMES TO COME
The forests still grow.
The fields still bear
The cities still stand.
The people still breathe.
ON THE CALENDAR THE DAY IS NOT
YET SHOWN
Every month, every day
Lies open still.  One of those days
Is going to be marked with a cross.
THE WORKERS CRY OUT FOR BREAD
The merchants cry out for markets.
The unemployed were hungry.  The employed
Are hungry now.
The hands that lay folded are busy again.
They are making shells.
THOSE WHO TAKE THE MEAT FROM THE TABLE
Teach contentment.
Those for whom the contribution is destined
Demand sacrifice.
Those who eat their fill speak to the hungry
Of wonderful times to come.
Those who lead the country into the abyss
Call ruling too difficult
For ordinary men.
WHEN THE LEADERS SPEAK OF PEACE
The common folk know
That war is coming.
When the leaders curse war
The mobilization order is already written out.
THOSE AT THE TOP SAY:  PEACE
AND WAR
Are of different substance.
But their peace and their war
Are like wind and storm.
War grows from their peace
Like son from his mother
He bears
Her frightful features.
Their war kills
Whatever their peace
Has left over.
ON THE WALL WAS CHALKED:
They want war.
The man who wrote it
Has already fallen.
THOSE AT THE TOP SAY:
This way to glory.
Those down below say:
This way to the grave.
THE WAR WHICH IS COMING
Is not the first one.  There were
Other wars before it.
When the last one came to an end
There were conquerors and conquered.
Among the conquered the common people
Starved.  Among the conquerors
The common people starved too.
THOSE AT THE TOP SAY COMRADESHIP
Reigns in the army.
The truth of this is seen
In the cookhouse.
In their hearts should be
The selfsame courage.  But
On their plates
Are two kinds of rations.
WHEN IT COMES TO MARCHING MANY DO NOT
KNOW
That their enemy is marching at their head.
The voice which gives them their orders
Is their enemy's voice and
The man who speaks of the enemy
Is the enemy himself.
IT IS NIGHT
The married couples
Lie in their beds.  The young women
Will bear orphans.
GENERAL, YOUR TANK IS A POWERFUL VEHICLE
It smashes down forests and crushes a hundred men.
But it has one defect:
It needs a driver.
General, your bomber is powerful.
It flies faster than a storm and carries more than an elephant.
But it has one defect:
It needs a mechanic.
General, man is very useful.
He can fly and he can kill.
But he has one defect:
He can think.

Looking out across the land,
I see a sight that is not so grand.
A scene that is eerie and still,
But as the sun set behind the distant hill,
Flags fluttered in the evening breeze,
Leaves rustled in the nearby trees.
The memories of war came into view,
Fallen comrades and massive destruction too
Bringing back the horrors of an era past
Walking through those perished forms at last.
Rows of faded flags and crosses
In remembrance of our greatest losses.
All these buried souls did fight and die
When the call to arms was extremely high.
Many have fallen and lie in eternal sleep,
Leaving posterity to ponder their keep.
Each flag and cross for a nation to bear
In memory of a veteran under God's care.

Presented with glamor
Fire and fury of war
Dark side of our heart

You young friskies who today
Jump and fight in Father’s hay
With bows and arrows and wooden spears,
Playing at Royal Welch Fusiliers,
Happy though these hours you spend,
Have they warned you how games end?
Boys, from the first time you prod
And thrust with spears of curtain-rod,
From the first time you tear and slash
Your long-bows from the garden ash,
Or fit your shaft with a blue jay feather,
Binding the split tops together,
From that same hour by fate you’re bound
As champions of this stony ground,
Loyal and true in everything,
To serve your Army and your King,
Prepared to starve and sweat and die
Under some fierce foreign sky,
If only to keep safe those joys
That belong to British boys,
To keep young Prussians from the soft
Scented hay of father’s loft,
And stop young Slavs from cutting bows
And bendy spears from Welsh hedgerows.
Another War soon gets begun,
A dirtier, a more glorious one;
Then, boys, you’ll have to play, all in;
It’s the cruellest team will win.
So hold your nose against the stink
And never stop too long to think.
Wars don’t change except in name;
The next one must go just the same,
And new foul tricks unguessed before
Will win and justify this War.
Kaisers and Czars will strut the stage
Once more with pomp and greed and rage;
Courtly ministers will stop
At home and fight to the last drop;
By the million men will die
In some new horrible agony;
And children here will thrust and poke,
Shoot and die, and laugh at the joke,
With bows and arrows and wooden spears,
Playing at Royal Welch Fusiliers.

THOU who hast slept all night upon the storm,
Waking renew'd on thy prodigious pinions,
(Burst the wild storm? above it thou ascended'st,
And rested on the sky, thy slave that cradled thee,)
Now a blue point, far, far in heaven floating,
As to the light emerging here on deck I watch thee,
(Myself a speck, a point on the world's floating vast.)
Far, far at sea,
After the night's fierce drifts have strewn the shores with wrecks,
With re-appearing day as now so happy and serene,                  10
The rosy and elastic dawn, the flashing sun,
The limpid spread of air cerulean,
Thou also re-appearest.
Thou born to match the gale, (thou art all wings,)
To cope with heaven and earth and sea and hurricane,
Thou ship of air that never furl'st thy sails,
Days, even weeks untired and onward, through spaces, realms gyrating,
At dusk that look'st on Senegal, at morn America,
That sport'st amid the lightning-flash and thunder-cloud,
In them, in thy experience, had'st thou my soul,                   20
What joys! what joys were thine!

I'm into mental sparring -
Catharsis for the soul,
It loosens up the attitude
But often takes its toll;
It makes you feel important,
It lets you spread your wings,
But even though it feels so good
It just might ruin things;
Like laughter shared so easily
When times are going well,
And then with just one careless word
You blow it all to hell;
It isn't good to hold it in
When words you have to say,
But be prepared for consequence
Once venom starts to spray;
Sometimes you have to speak your peace
And stand up for yourself
Or folks will walk all over you
Then put you on the shelf;
A little mental sparring
Can be healthy in a way,
Just keep it to a minimum
Or there'll be hell to pay!

In anguish we uplift
A new unhallowed song:
The race is to the swift;
The battle to the strong.
Of old it was ordained
That we, in packs like curs,
Some thirty million trained
And licensed murderers,
In crime should live and act,
If cunning folk say sooth
Who flay the naked fact
And carve the heart of truth.
The rulers cry aloud,
"We cannot cancel war,
The end and bloody shroud
Of wrongs the worst abhor,
And order's swaddling band:
Know that relentless strife
Remains by sea and land
The holiest law of life.
From fear in every guise,
From sloth, from lust of pelf,
By war's great sacrifice
The world redeems itself.
War is the source, the theme
Of art; the goal, the bent
And brilliant academe
Of noble sentiment;
The augury, the dawn
Of golden times of grace;
The true catholicon,
And blood-bath of the race."
We thirty million trained
And licensed murderers,
Like zanies rigged, and chained
By drill and scourge and curse
In shackles of despair
We know not how to break --
What do we victims care
For art, what interest take
In things unseen, unheard?
Some diplomat no doubt
Will launch a heedless word,
And lurking war leap out!
We spell-bound armies then,
Huge brutes in dumb distress,
Machines compact of men
Who once had consciences,
Must trample harvests down --
Vineyard, and corn and oil;
Dismantle town by town,
Hamlet and homestead spoil
On each appointed path,
Till lust of havoc light
A blood-red blaze of wrath
In every frenzied sight.
In many a mountain pass,
Or meadow green and fresh,
Mass shall encounter mass
Of shuddering human flesh;
Opposing ordnance roar
Across the swaths of slain,
And blood in torrents pour
In vain -- always in vain,
For war breeds war again!
The shameful dream is past,
The subtle maze untrod:
We recognise at last
That war is not of God.

Clouds wrestle with sun
Pushing with warning rain storm
Darkness engulfs earth
Feb.2,2008

the sea knows how to dream
and dream
it will
still dream about a jellyfish
a flesh
of a jelly fish, and it will sleep and think
about this dream of more flesh
and sting
and fling
its salt like the tentacles of the jellyfish
to the fish
and the sea urchins
and starfish begin their journey to the shores
where desire stops but does not end
i am the sea and i dream about her tentacles
her flesh
and the pain
in my skin
the needles of the urchin
and the hardness of the starfish and the shore
where i lay
to desires that do not end
to loves lost to wishes that it may regain again
sea dreams sea pains sea urchins
the boat on fire and the captain drowning

Sunday, December 23,2018
8: 36 PM
First warning
Sunday,23rd December 2018
I wish the world to be different
when the bell of the new year may present
the rising sun in a different color
to lead us with an honor
Let us look back with no surprise
it was filled with the promises
yet something more was to be done
even though it has ceremonially gone
It was really memorable
for all of to struggle
and remember as an individual
nature remained really cruel
Was it of our doing?
nature was really playing
with the most devastating arm
and causing great harm
jungle fire. floods and natural disturbances
it played really against with destructive forces
we all prayed for the welfare of human beings
we are taking it as the first warning
Hasmukh Mehta

Lithium tanks are bad
Just like the last one I had
There may be just one clue
It's the spirits in the flue
For in heaven they make so few
You know how they make them too
For they are gun powder you know
They help the spirits grow
The stick em' up is when
You do blow up in end
They finally get to you
Just like I didn't do
For if you think Lithium is great
Go ahead and test your fate
You will hallucinate
When it's the fiery furnace you hate
When around magnetic fields
A strong headache it yields
It swells the users brain
During the memory drain
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship

It is preposterous indeed
that medicine  today does not
concern itself with health promotion,
it does, instead, go overboard
with illness interventions,
many of which do make things worse.
Sir William Osler   warned us not
to intervene when man is well,
but that is   what we do today!
Medicine does not believe
in the idea of wellness.
Each person is considered ill
unless proved otherwise
by use of  funds that can be commandeered.
It is a paradigm prostitution.
Routine check up is currently
a major industry, it is presented
as if prediction of the future
could entirely depend on it.

Ni-cad and Lithium batteries
Have positive and negative posts
One collects, the other rejects
Within the electrolyte host
A type of semi-conduction
Takes place when charging each cell
‘til it's charge, puts halt to the barge
Of the electron flow as well
Man's body is like a battery
Where caustics and acids dwell
Unsettle? Toss in more metal
And watch the conduction swell
And when it finally burns out
Its computer turned to a toast
Doctor's shout, that without a doubt
His life was made better than most

got colds today
warning my body
the i have less immunity,
i will take rest
and drink plenty of fluids
there is a rush
for being again healthy
lots of work to do
lots of deadlines to meet
for the meantime
i need sleep
but this i cannot miss
another poem for me and for you.

On a bright sunny day
With the light wind flowing
A Cutie white cloud of peace
Peeked from the sky to play
With the wind
And that Carried her away
Too far
That landed them in nowheres land
Down is the hill
Top is the bright sun shine falling on
Peak of the hill.
All of a sudden
Darkness gripped her way
And a storm of silence could be heard
She saw that she was surrounded
By black clouds from all sides of rain
Which were ready to pour out angrily on her
It seemed like tiger ready for an attack.
With dagger in hand
To pounce on her to kill.
Meekly stood the cutie cloud
Watching and
Remembered her mothers warning
Not to cross the border line
Which she crossed playfully
All of a sudden
The swirling wind dispersed
Away the black clouds
Surrounding her
And she was given a way
To fly away.
She flew away so fast as she was lighter than air
That leaving all the black clouds at dismay.
She reached reached on her mammas  lap
And cried to her heart full.
Mamma said
Be careful next time
Don't get carried away by the wind!
©ALL RIGHTS RESERVED BY GEETHA JAYAKUMAR 2014
© 2014.
Geetha Jayakumar.

The Darkness
Holds close
It's secret
Motive's
At the concrete
Curb
Much too near
The drive way
Of one of
God's many abode's
By, Theodora  Onken
January 16,2016

STRUCTURE & FORM IN POETRY.  Classical Poetry always has Structure even though it does not always rhyme. The Structure gives it metere and flow which facilitates reading and recitation. In my book - recitability is an essential character of a good Poem! . A lesser know Poetical Structure is RHYME ROYAL which inposes a strict metre (usually imabic pentameter)   and a strict rhyming pattern a b a b b c c. Each verse must consist of seven lines. The number of verses is optional!  As an Environmental Scientist I am concerned with the Conservation of Water which is the subject of this Rhyme Royal
Whence comes this water that we need for life?
Where does it go when we flush it away?
A shortage in some countries causes strife
Will it run out like coal and oil one day?
For all resources there's a price to pay.
We all use water - like it was for free
Just turn the tap - it's there for you and me.
God touched the clouds and made the rain - from the rain
Formed the sea and from the sea formed the clouds
To rise and cool and give us rain again.
The rain provides the water for the crowds.
When it evaporates it goes back to the clouds.
Each dropp of water makes our lives secure
But every day we're using more and more.
The Planet Earth has water everywhere
Liquid or a solid or a vapour
In oceans - rivers - lakes and in the air
Icecaps or on frozen lakes like paper.
We scrape it off our windscreens with a scraper!
Mountain stream - boiling steam and freezing snow
A lolly ice?   Thanks very nice - It is all  H 2 O.
The Water Cycle keeps the water going
Round and round - none's lost to outer space
Precipitation - raining - hailing - snowing
Moves the water round from place to place.
Especially when a snowball hits your face.
Streams and rushing rivers keep it all in motion
Then water falls down waterfalls and ends up in the ocean!
Water Water everywhere - for our daily needs
Turn the tap and use the river and the well
Don't pollute - don't dam the spring that feeds
Without 'clean water' life on Earth is Hell!
Clean Water has no taste - no clour and no smell.
Water Water everywhere - please please stop and think
Water Water everywhere - but not one dropp to drink! ! ! ! !
(John Knight - Frozen Colchester - December 2009)

Alembics turn to stranger things
Strange things, but never while we live
Shall magic turn this bronze that sings
To singing water in a sieve.
The trumpets of Cæsar's guard
Salute his rigorous bastions
With ordered bruit; the bronze is hard
Though there is silver in the bronze.
Our mutable tongue is like the sea,
Curled wave and shattering thunder-fit;
Dangle in strings of sand shall he
Who smoothes the ripples out of it.

Me, very fishy, unable to understand water
Move about in search of an answer
They say water, water everywhere
But what is water they don’t say
Where is water, I don’t see, don’t feel
I move all right, so what?
Water, water everywhere
I don’t drink a drop
Let me ask the giant fish
The grand sire, who knows better
And he tells without water
You can live not a moment …

‘To understand all
is to forgive all ‘ –
that’s one French saying
that doesn’t seem to have
crossed the few miles of
‘The English Channel’, or
the Straits of Dover or
‘The Sleeve’ or the
‘Passage of Calais’ or
however the French translates –
with the Normans; so
perhaps they left it behind
at the Conquest along with
Armagnac and crepes and
their blonde mistresses
and never went back for it
like I wonder if that blunt
English saying,
‘Those who can, do;
those who can’t, teach; and
those who can’t teach,
become critics…’
ever made it across La Manche
to that civilised nation where
critics, teachers, and the mind
are held in such respect; but
suppose we equate football
and poetry here:
football supporters know their
playing days are over, if
they ever happened anyway;
they aren’t equipped to teach
except their sons, for some
happy time; and so they
hold to their precious love of
the beautiful game
by criticising the team,
the manager, and especially
the ref. Shoot the ref. So
maybe it’s because
you, and you know who you are,
felt you couldn’t be
the great poet which you so wanted
to be, and found you
couldn’t teach, that
because you truly, deeply
love poetry and all
it stands for, and need
to preserve that love, you
criticise poetry so savagely here
in England, and
are hated for it;
strange isn’t it that
a few miles across the Channel
from aggressive England
you’d be feted, revered, honoured,
as staunch upholder in critical essays
of the ever-renewing greatness of
French literature…
I’ll settle for understanding all and
forgiving all

You go to a beach
and one of the first things you do
is grab a few stones,
skip them across the water
to see how many times they skip
and how far they go.
I don’t know if this is a man’s thing,
or if females do it to.
Therefore, my female friends out there
you’ll have to let me know.

1     With what deep murmurs through time's silent stealth
2     Doth thy transparent, cool, and wat'ry wealth
3         Here flowing fall,
4         And chide, and call,
5     As if his liquid, loose retinue stay'd
6     Ling'ring, and were of this steep place afraid;
7         The common pass
8         Where, clear as glass,
9         All must descend
10       Not to an end,
11   But quicken'd by this deep and rocky grave,
12   Rise to a longer course more bright and brave.
13       Dear stream! dear bank, where often I
14       Have sate and pleas'd my pensive eye,
15       Why, since each drop of thy quick store
16       Runs thither whence it flow'd before,
17       Should poor souls fear a shade or night,
18       Who came, sure, from a sea of light?
19       Or since those drops are all sent back
20       So sure to thee, that none doth lack,
21       Why should frail flesh doubt any more
22       That what God takes, he'll not restore?
23       O useful element and clear!
24       My sacred wash and cleanser here,
25       My first consigner unto those
26       Fountains of life where the Lamb goes!
27       What sublime truths and wholesome themes
28       Lodge in thy mystical deep streams!
29       Such as dull man can never find
30       Unless that Spirit lead his mind
31       Which first upon thy face did move,
32       And hatch'd all with his quick'ning love.
33       As this loud brook's incessant fall
34       In streaming rings restagnates all,
35       Which reach by course the bank, and then
36       Are no more seen, just so pass men.
37       O my invisible estate,
38       My glorious liberty, still late!
39       Thou art the channel my soul seeks,
40       Not this with cataracts and creeks.

Just not wet anymore.
Won't work as a door stop.
Must have some water.
WATER-WATER-WATER-WATER
In the baby bottle, SMALL BOTTLE-ok.
Just thirsty.
Want some cold WATER? ?
We don't have any water.
CRY-CRY-CRY, tears are water.
BUT-there not wet NOW.
TEARS NOT WET - TEARS NOT WET.
ACID RAIN no pain.
ACID RAIN no pain.
ACID RAIN no pain.
DRIP rain drops - DRIP.
Clouds full of ACID RAIN.
CRY-CRY-CRY-CRY.
11/24/2006 Joe Poewhit
scribbleclub.com - defunct
JESUS SAVES

In the pond in the park
all things are doubled:
Long buildings hang and
wriggle gently. Chimneys
are bent legs bouncing
on clouds below. A flag
wags like a fishhook
down there in the sky.
The arched stone bridge
is an eye, with underlid
in the water. In its lens
dip crinkled heads with hats
that don't fall off. Dogs go by,
barking on their backs.
A baby, taken to feed the
ducks, dangles upside-down,
a pink balloon for a buoy.
Treetops deploy a haze of
cherry bloom for roots,
where birds coast belly-up
in the glass bowl of a hill;
from its bottom a bunch
of peanut-munching children
is suspended by their
sneakers, waveringly.
A swan, with twin necks
forming the figure 3,
steers between two dimpled
towers doubled. Fondly
hissing, she kisses herself,
and all the scene is troubled:
water-windows splinter,
tree-limbs tangle, the bridge
folds like a fan.

Water water every where but not a dropp to spare,
It’s time to stop and really think
A war we must declare.
The stone dry enemy will dry all the river beds,
So we’ll fight this war together
With loaded Aussie water tanks..
If man can pump his oil a thousand ‘K’s
Across the dessert lands, let’s get pumping
Northern monsoon lakes to dryer southern lands.
And in this raining fight of ours
We must never never cower,
And hope all the couples in our hot sunburnt land
Will always pull together and share
Their morning shower.

Old Noah he had an ostrich farm and fowls on the largest scale,
He ate his egg with a ladle in a egg-cup big as a pail,
And the soup he took was Elephant Soup and fish he took was Whale,
But they all were small to the cellar he took when he set out to sail,
And Noah he often said to his wife when he sat down to dine,
"I don't care where the water goes if it doesn't get into the wine."
The cataract of the cliff of heaven fell blinding off the brink
As if it would wash the stars away as suds go down a sink,
The seven heavens came roaring down for the throats of hell to drink,
And Noah he cocked his eye and said, "It looks like rain, I think,
The water has drowned the Matterhorn as deep as a Mendip mine,
But I don't care where the water goes if it doesn't get into the wine."
But Noah he sinned, and we have sinned; on tipsy feet we trod,
Till a great big black teetotaller was sent to us for a rod,
And you can't get wine at a P.S.A., or chapel, or Eisteddfod,
For the Curse of Water has come again because of the wrath of God,
And water is on the Bishop's board and the Higher Thinker's shrine,
But I don't care where the water goes if it doesn't get into the wine.

------
wet morning
but is already
brightening up
a time  for the sun
on your face
the impish wind is raising
my gauzy scarf
is sailing and as the kite
on the sky
an August sun
through leaves
it is lighting
and  is going out
as the candle blown out
when the night is falling...

Walking in the rain
Catching the raindrops
As we laughed in love
Was fun with you, gentle you
But now the dark clouds
Bringing storm and rain
Terrify me
Real funeral weather
As it is today
Pitter patter, pitter patter
The winds have howled and gone
Taking you along
I remember the day you went away
The sky cried tears
Day was dark as night
When the gods took you away
I was alone,
Alone, alone, alone
Crying in the rain
Funeral weather
--

Man chisels, sculpts the mountain-sides by hand;
Man cuts granite blocks off by huge machines;
Man breaks the boulders using dynamite;
The remnants are not worth seeing at all!
When Nature weathers mountains and hill-tops,
In slow degrees for years by crumbling stones,
What’s left appears a master-piece of art –
So queer yet wonderful to human eyes!
A flock of sheep are grazing up a rock;
A crowd of people move to see someone;
Is Jesus preaching from the mountain-side?
The weathered stones appear as if alive!
Imagination can pick various shapes;
The mind’s eye thinks of people present, past;
The thinker views the grotesque shapes anew;
Old mountains turn great sculptures unrivaled!
Copyright by Dr John Celes 11-09-2013

Fallen leaves come in                                                 That pretty Fall anywhere and                                         Everywhere...                                                        Fallen snows come in                                                  That wonderful Winter anywhere and                                    Everywhere...                                                        All pretty blossoms come in                                           That great Spring anywhere and                                        Everywhere...                                                        All pretty fruits come in                                             That fabulous Summer anywhere and                                     Everywhere...                                                        Four different seasons with                                           Four different outcomes...                                           All seasons produce what we need                                      Just to make our life great and                                       Pretty anytime, anywhere, and everywhere...                           This is the real seasons' weather forecast...                        _________________________________________________ _____________________

Severe storm winds crash
leaving rubble in it's path
devistation hits.

I think it's the places I've been
or the people I've known,
that led me to find
I'm not alone.
For the first time down this road
it feels like me at summertime.
The eternal gold light within
ready to glitter, willing to shine.
It's a good life some have the luxury to live
drowning in sad song days,
laughing in a hot breeze, at ease,
by a poolside or under palm trees,
with echos that leave voiceless nobody's behind.
But the world was always a beautifully distorted creature, wasn't it?
We are the lucky stars who had a choice,
to do, or not to sharpen the mind.
Like electric diamonds, a spark for dark silhouettes.
I chose to fall, I loved to die,
walking under telephone wires,
pale yellow sun in the sky.
It's so gorgeous to pretend we are all that matters
dancing in your psychedelic souls glow,
waiting for the days to end.
A universal emptiness that has a dream to mend.
T-shirt weather, happiness is better

The weather girl
Is a priceless pearl.
Chic and smart,
She has the art
Of making weather
Altogether—
However bloody—
A pleasure to study.

Weather stops me
running my nerves.
I'll rather sleep
under the leafy
tree of Amaltas.
The scorching heat
of the summer days
and the penetrating
sunlight will be gone,
with its keen rays.
The breeze will cool
my restless mind
and the shade may
balm my fever
leaving my grief behind.

My face falls into my hands,
can't cope any more.
Down the drain went all my plans,
put them in the bottom drawer.
This all might sound hardcore,
but my plan I will not ignore.
I'm gonna pull myself together,
I can conquer any weather.
My plan I dug out again,
going to use my brain.
I am not quite slain,
I will not hang my head in shame.
Any plan is a good plan,
you just got to stick to it.
Hold your head up be a man,
what ever you do don't quit.

Clash your cymbals, maids, to--day.
Chaunt the praise of Cynthia.
You, her virgins, yokeless, free,
Young Time's choice, his brides--to--be.
Nymphs in white, who hand in hand
Next to her high altar stand,
Take your timbrels, strike your strings;
Tune them to Love's clamourings.
Heralds be of her your fairest,
Her of rarities the rarest.
Instant all her laud rehearse,
Idol of your universe;
And thus armed stand forth and say,
``All is nought but Cynthia.''
Clash your cymbals. Beat your drums.
Cynthia in her glory comes,
High with him whose duty is
Her to lead to a new bliss.
Ah, what fortune his to be
Angel of her ecstasy!
Red with roses Love's path lies,
Rich in rainbows of surprise.
They that tread it wiser are
Than the wise kings with their star,
Eve and morn who went pursuing
Eve's old hopes to Time's undoing,
Robbing Time of his vain wrath.
Run to Love; take all he hath,
Idle maids! Nay, shout and sing,
In Love's praise new chorusing,
Stintless this thrice happy day.
Shout aloud for Cynthia!

If I was a ghost in love
Walking veiled in mystery
I would ask a ghostly dove
to take a message to thee
Flying down from above
Asking you to marry me
From the spectoral one you love
Strange as this might be
On this October night
I think  that it might be
For our guests a terrible fright
To see what they  will see
And will they hear the I do's
Against the sea of wails
And will you always be true
To a lover who's very pale

One said, its a secret
So don't say to anyone
Said, she is marrying
That she is, my love
The one, don't knew it
Heart stopped for second
And started to pain badly
My throat too had felt it
But my lips had smiled
And said, its good news
The one said me date
And told me to come
By then heart was broken
But my lips still smiled
Said, wish i can do so
The one started to say
About my loves only love
So my ears were on job
And lips carried the talk
But rest of me had died
The one told me all
About my loves love
Then my dead heart felt
My loves love is better
Far far better than me
So I wiped my eyes
Said bye to the one
And placed hand on heart
Said, its time to sing
For my only loves wedding
Wedding, which i can't go
My broken heart is weak
It can't break down more
But its each broken piece
Sings a happy marry life
Forever to my loves wedding

In our wedding night
I saw the bright stars
Promising us happiness
Through all days to come
My bride I much adore you
You have my unbound love
Your shining beauty
Your gleaming eyes
The doors to paradise
Your cheerfulness
Your radiating delight
The candles lead our way
In the journey of life
The golden bells
The silver bells
They will all chime
Announcing merrily
For joyful future
For beautiful family
Crowning our love

I was a summer blossom
given away;
walking before a tear-scented Wedding Train,
inside an arm-locked processional,
with attending musical strains,
rose petal aisled
marriage vows.
My Dad finally breathed-
not wanting to release
but willed himself.
Love leaves that autumn-
mixing then
separations
and matrimonies,
ironies
and cleavings,
all falling gently
from his tree;
floating
evolving-
winging
paradoxes
and meanings-
leaf rustlings stirring;
signaling
someone's winter
and someone's spring.
Dad cries.
Daughter loves
both autumn leaves
and summer blossomings-
a gardenia scent
in the heavy air
falls quietly-
memory
stroked;
still trembling.

The wide Pacific waters
And the Atlantic meet.
With cries of joy they mingle,
In tides of love they greet.
Above the drowned ages
A wind of wooing blows: —
The red rose woos the lotos,
The lotos woos the rose . . .
The lotos conquered Egypt.
The rose was loved in Rome.
Great India crowned the lotos:
(Britain the rose's home).
Old China crowned the lotos,
They crowned it in Japan.
But Christendom adored the rose
Ere Christendom began . . .
The lotos speaks of slumber:
The rose is as a dart.
The lotos is Nirvana:
The rose is Mary's heart.
The rose is deathless, restless,
The splendor of our pain:
The flush and fire of labor
That builds, not all in vain. . . .
The genius of the lotos
Shall heal earth's too-much fret.
The rose, in blinding glory,
Shall waken Asia yet.
Hail to their loves, ye peoples!
Behold, a world-wind blows,
That aids the ivory lotos
To wed the red red rose!

Though you know it anyhow
Listen to me, darling, now,
Proving what I need not prove
How I know I love you, love.
Near and far, near and far,
I am happy where you are;
Likewise I have never larnt
How to be it where you aren't.
Far and wide, far and wide,
I can walk with you beside;
Furthermore, I tell you what,
I sit and sulk where you are not.
Visitors remark my frown
Where you're upstairs and I am down,
Yes, and I'm afraid I pout
When I'm indoors and you are out;
But how contentedly I view
Any room containing you.
In fact I care not where you be,
Just as long as it's with me.
In all your absences I glimpse
Fire and flood and trolls and imps.
Is your train a minute slothful?
I goad the stationmaster wrothful.
When with friends to bridge you drive
I never know if you're alive,
And when you linger late in shops
I long to telephone the cops.
Yet how worth the waiting for,
To see you coming through the door.
Somehow, I can be complacent
Never but with you adjacent.
Near and far, near and far,
I am happy where you are;
Likewise I have never larnt
How to be it where you aren't.
Then grudge me not my fond endeavor,
To hold you in my sight forever;
Let none, not even you, disparage
Such a valid reason for a marriage.

Far from the feasting, in the bedroom
Sits loyal Amor and quakes with dread:
What if the guests become too zestful,
Break the peace of the bridal bed?
A mystical and holy shimmer
Flows from his pale flames of gold;
For you both a whirl of incense
Readies pleasures manifold.
How throbs your heart as chiming timepiece
Chases noisy guests away;
Any moment, lips you burn for
Nought will utter, nought gainsay.
You hasten with her to the temple,
There to consummate your bliss;
The guardian holds aloft his flambeau,
Still and small as a taper is.
How she trembles with your kisses,
Bosom, lips, and cheeks, and brow:
His severities are shivers,
Your derring-do is duty now.
Quick, Amor helps you undress her,
He has half your enterprise;
Roguish, then, but also modest,
He'll be closing both his eyes.

i give you my heart as a token of my love
for JESUS filled it from above.
i searched my whole life through
for a man such as you.
i saw in you all that i desired
and you set my heart on fire.
i see that you are a caring and a non violent man
and praised me when i took a stand.
on all that i believe and feel to be true.
that's the reason i have fallen in love with you.
so on this beautiful day in my life
i consent to be your wife.

Above the marge of night a star still shines,
And on the frosty hills the sombre pines
Harbor an eerie wind that crooneth low
Over the glimmering wastes of virgin snow.
Through the pale arch of orient the morn
Comes in a milk-white splendor newly-born,
A sword of crimson cuts in twain the gray
Banners of shadow hosts, and lo, the day!

Blow, blow, thou winter wind
Thou art not so unkind
As man's ingratitude;
Thy tooth is not so keen,
Because thou art not seen,
Although thy breath be rude.
Heigh-ho! sing, heigh-ho! unto the green holly:
Most freindship if feigning, most loving mere folly:
Then heigh-ho, the holly!
This life is most jolly.
Freeze, freeze thou bitter sky,
That does not bite so nigh
As benefits forgot:
Though thou the waters warp,
Thy sting is not so sharp
As a friend remembered not.
Heigh-ho! sing, heigh-ho! unto the green holly:
Most friendship is feigning, most loving mere folly:
Then heigh-ho, the holly!
This life is most jolly.

1     For weeks and weeks the autumn world stood still,
2         Clothed in the shadow of a smoky haze;
3     The fields were dead, the wind had lost its will,
4     And all the lands were hushed by wood and hill,
5         In those grey, withered days.
6     Behind a mist the blear sun rose and set,
7         At night the moon would nestle in a cloud;
8     The fisherman, a ghost, did cast his net;
9     The lake its shores forgot to chafe and fret,
10       And hushed its caverns loud.
11   Far in the smoky woods the birds were mute,
12       Save that from blackened tree a jay would scream,
13   Or far in swamps the lizard's lonesome lute
14   Would pipe in thirst, or by some gnarlèd root
15       The tree-toad trilled his dream.
16   From day to day still hushed the season's mood,
17       The streams stayed in their runnels shrunk and dry;
18   Suns rose aghast by wave and shore and wood,
19   And all the world, with ominous silence, stood
20       In weird expectancy:
21   When one strange night the sun like blood went down,
22       Flooding the heavens in a ruddy hue;
23   Red grew the lake, the sere fields parched and brown,
24   Red grew the marshes where the creeks stole down,
25       But never a wind-breath blew.
26   That night I felt the winter in my veins,
27       A joyous tremor of the icy glow;
28   And woke to hear the north's wild vibrant strains,
29   While far and wide, by withered woods and plains,
30       Fast fell the driving snow.

"Delightful are trees and fields with the outgrowth of new tender-leaves and crops, Lodhra trees are with their blossomy flowers, crops of rice are completely ripened, but now lotuses are on their surcease by far, for the dewdrops are falling... hence, this is the time of pre-winter that drew nigh...
"The busts of flirtatious women that are graced by bosomy bosoms are bedaubed and reddened with the redness of heart-stealing saffrony skincare, called Kashmir kumkum, on which embellished are the white pendants that are in shine with the whiteness of whitish dewdrops, white jasmines, and whitely moon...
"Undecorated are the hiplines of kittenish women with gem-studded golden strings of girdle, nor their lotus like feet that have the brightness of lotuses with jingling anklets, whose jingling is correlative to the clucks of swans, for the cold touch of coldish metal gives cold quivers...
"Unbearable is the touch of metallic circlets on wrists and bicep-lets on upper-arms of the couple of arms of vivacious women, or the touch of new silk cloths on the discoid of their waistline, or fine fabric on their robust breasts...
"The womenfolk are rubbing fragrant wood-turmeric powder on their bodies, and their lotus-like faces are tattooed with erasable tattoos of foliage, and their head-hair is fumigated with the fumes of aloe vera resin, and they are doing all this for merrymaking in an enjoyable lovemaking...
"Thoughgood fortune is bechanced in the happiness of lovemaking, the women of age are with sallowish and whitened faces owing to the strain of lovemaking, and though they want to laugh heartily, they desist from it, noticing very painful lower lips that are bitten with the edges of teeth of their lovers in lovemaking, lest the lip is lengthened, the pain is sharpened...
"On reaching the valleys of bosomy busts of women of age, the winter breeze is attaining their coolant splendidness, but when those bosoms are pressingly hugged by their lovers it is incarcerated there with an unable pain, and that pain is expressed by the Hemanta season, as though it is bewailing for a release of that breeze at least at dawn time, with tear-like dewdrops clinging on to the spires of grass-blades...
"Overspread with abundant rice crops and ornamented with herds of she-deer, and delightfully reverberated by the ruddy geese, with their calls and counter-calls, the complacent corridors of confines are captivating hearts...
"Now the lakes are adorned with fully blossomed black-lotuses, and elaborated with swan-like waterfowls in their excitement, and sheeted with considerably coldish waters that are depurated, thus these lakes are stealing the hearts of men, for men look up to them as the visages of women that are with black-lotus-like hairdo, with swanlike eyes, and whose bodies are cold, wanting a warm hug...
"Oh, dear, the Priyangu plants that give fragrant seeds are ripened by the snow caused coldness, and they are frequently wobbled by the snowy winds, and they now appear like the fragrant and frisky women gone into paleness and wobbliness by their dissociation from their lovers...
"These days the mouths of people are fragranced with the fragrance of liquors made from the essential oils of flowers, and their bodies are fragrant with the same fragrancy by their puffs of suspires, and while lying on beds jointly with their bodies in tight embrace, they are slipping into sleep, entwined with the essence of passion...
"The young and beautiful ladies that are new to their adulthood have bruises and marks of teeth notches on their lips, and even their bosoms are incised with nails of their lovers, thus these marks and incisions clearly indicate that they have enjoyed lovemaking consummately...
"Some woman of age staying in the warmth of tender sun to warm up herself, is holding a mirror and applying cosmetics on her lotus-like face, and while doing so, she is pouting her lips and examining them that are dented with teeth bites of her lover, whose quintessence is guzzled down by her lover in last night...
"One more woman whose body is fatigued by the strain of excessive lovemaking, and who is quiet sleepless last night, and whose eyes are palish like white lotuses, and whose bun is slithered and plaits of head-hair are loosened and hair tousling on her shoulders, bust, and on her bosoms, is tripping into sleep, warmed up by the rays of tender sun...
"Bedraggled are the loose ends of cloudlike blackish head-hair onto the lofty busty bosoms of some other slender-bodied women of age, by which busty weight crouching are their bodies, as slim pearly pendants would crouch onto their bosoms, and they are taking away the circlets of flowers from their hairdos, as those flowers are already utilised and devoid of their heart-pleasing fragrance of yester night, and now they are grooming their hair, afresh...
"On examining her body that is completely enjoyed by her lover, another woman is highly gladdened, and she remade her pleasant lips resplendently with lip-colouring, and on examining her bust with nail scratches, she embarrassedly wore her bodice, and while doing so the pain of friction of bodice with nail-scratches made her eyes to twitch, on which eyes dangling are her dark, delicate, and twitchy hair-curls...
"By the exertion in their long-lasting games of lovemaking other women of age are wearied, and their slim bodies are thrilling at their flanks from bosoms to thighs, thereby those prettily pretty women are applying bodily oils and pastes to take an oil bath, that relieves these tingling sensations...
"Pleasant with many an attribute, stealer of the hearts of women, and at which time the confines of villages are overspread with many an abundant rice-crop on earth, and overlaid is the sky with the garlanded flights of ruddy gees, that which is always with a heart-stealing environ, such as it is, let this season Hemanta, pre-winter, endow comfort to all of you passionate people...

See! Winter comes, to rule the varied Year,
Sullen, and sad; with all his rising Train,
Vapours, and Clouds, and Storms: Be these my Theme,
These, that exalt the Soul to solemn Thought,
And heavenly musing. Welcome kindred Glooms!
Wish'd, wint'ry, Horrors, hail! -- With frequent Foot,
Pleas'd, have I, in my cheerful Morn of Life,
When, nurs'd by careless Solitude, I liv'd,
And sung of Nature with unceasing Joy,
Pleas'd, have I wander'd thro' your rough Domains;
Trod the pure, virgin, Snows, my self as pure:
Heard the Winds roar, and the big Torrent burst:
Or seen the deep, fermenting, Tempest brew'd,
In the red, evening, Sky. -- Thus pass'd the Time,
Till, thro' the opening Chambers of the South,
Look'd out the joyous Spring, look'd out, and smil'd.
THEE too, Inspirer of the toiling Swain!
Fair AUTUMN, yellow rob'd! I'll sing of thee,
Of thy last, temper'd, Days, and sunny Calms;
When all the golden Hours are on the Wing,
Attending thy Retreat, and round thy Wain,
Slow-rolling, onward to the Southern Sky.
BEHOLD! the well-pois'd Hornet, hovering, hangs,
With quivering Pinions, in the genial Blaze;
Flys off, in airy Circles: then returns,
And hums, and dances to the beating Ray.
Nor shall the Man, that, musing, walks alone,
And, heedless, strays within his radiant Lists,
Go unchastis'd away. -- Sometimes, a Fleece
Of Clouds, wide-scattering, with a lucid Veil,
Soft, shadow o'er th'unruffled Face of Heaven;
And, thro' their dewy Sluices, shed the Sun,
With temper'd Influence down. Then is the Time,
For those, whom Wisdom, and whom Nature charm,
To steal themselves from the degenerate Croud,
And soar above this little Scene of Things:
To tread low-thoughted Vice beneath their Feet:
To lay their Passions in a gentle Calm,
And woo lone Quiet, in her silent Walks.
NOW, solitary, and in pensive Guise,
Oft, let me wander o'er the russet Mead,
Or thro' the pining Grove; where scarce is heard
One dying Strain, to chear the Woodman's Toil:
Sad Philomel, perchance, pours forth her Plaint,
Far, thro' the withering Copse. Mean while, the Leaves,
That, late, the Forest clad with lively Green,
Nipt by the drizzly Night, and Sallow-hu'd,
Fall, wavering, thro' the Air; or shower amain,
Urg'd by the Breeze, that sobs amid the Boughs.
Then list'ning Hares forsake the rusling Woods,
And, starting at the frequent Noise, escape
To the rough Stubble, and the rushy Fen.
Then Woodcocks, o'er the fluctuating Main,
That glimmers to the Glimpses of the Moon,
Stretch their long Voyage to the woodland Glade:
Where, wheeling with uncertain Flight, they mock
The nimble Fowler's Aim. -- Now Nature droops;
Languish the living Herbs, with pale Decay:
And all the various Family of Flowers
Their sunny Robes resign. The falling Fruits,
Thro' the still Night, forsake the Parent-Bough,
That, in the first, grey, Glances of the Dawn,
Looks wild, and wonders at the wintry Waste.
THE Year, yet pleasing, but declining fast,
Soft, o'er the secret Soul, in gentle Gales,
A Philosophic Melancholly breathes,
And bears the swelling Thought aloft to Heaven.
Then forming Fancy rouses to conceive,
What never mingled with the Vulgar's Dream:
Then wake the tender Pang, the pitying Tear,
The Sigh for suffering Worth, the Wish prefer'd
For Humankind, the Joy to see them bless'd,
And all the Social Off-spring of the Heart!
OH! bear me then to high, embowering, Shades;
To twilight Groves, and visionary Vales;
To weeping Grottos, and to hoary Caves;
Where Angel-Forms are seen, and Voices heard,
Sigh'd in low Whispers, that abstract the Soul,
From outward Sense, far into Worlds remote.
NOW, when the Western Sun withdraws the Day,
And humid Evening, gliding o'er the Sky,
In her chill Progress, checks the straggling Beams,
And robs them of their gather'd, vapoury, Prey,
Where Marshes stagnate, and where Rivers wind,
Cluster the rolling Fogs, and swim along
The dusky-mantled Lawn: then slow descend,
Once more to mingle with their Watry Friends.
The vivid Stars shine out, in radiant Files;
And boundless Ether glows, till the fair Moon
Shows her broad Visage, in the crimson'd East;
Now, stooping, seems to kiss the passing Cloud:
Now, o'er the pure Cerulean, rides sublime.
Wide the pale Deluge floats, with silver Waves,
O'er the sky'd Mountain, to the low-laid Vale;
From the white Rocks, with dim Reflexion, gleams,
And faintly glitters thro' the waving Shades.
ALL Night, abundant Dews, unnoted, fall,
And, at Return of Morning, silver o'er
The Face of Mother-Earth; from every Branch
Depending, tremble the translucent Gems,
And, quivering, seem to fall away, yet cling,
And sparkle in the Sun, whose rising Eye,
With Fogs bedim'd, portends a beauteous Day.
NOW, giddy Youth, whom headlong Passions fire,
Rouse the wild Game, and stain the guiltless Grove,
With Violence, and Death; yet call it Sport,
To scatter Ruin thro' the Realms of Love,
And Peace, that thinks no Ill: But These, the Muse,
Whose Charity, unlimited, extends
As wide as Nature works, disdains to sing,
Returning to her nobler Theme in view --
FOR, see! where Winter comes, himself, confest,
Striding the gloomy Blast. First Rains obscure
Drive thro' the mingling Skies, with Tempest foul;
Beat on the Mountain's Brow, and shake the Woods,
That, sounding, wave below. The dreary Plain
Lies overwhelm'd, and lost. The bellying Clouds
Combine, and deepening into Night, shut up
The Day's fair Face. The Wanderers of Heaven,
Each to his Home, retire; save those that love
To take their Pastime in the troubled Air,
And, skimming, flutter round the dimply Flood.
The Cattle, from th'untasted Fields, return,
And ask, with Meaning low, their wonted Stalls;
Or ruminate in the contiguous Shade:
Thither, the houshold, feathery, People croud,
The crested Cock, with all his female Train,
Pensive, and wet. Mean while, the Cottage-Swain
Hangs o'er th'enlivening Blaze, and, taleful, there,
Recounts his simple Frolic: Much he talks,
And much he laughs, nor recks the Storm that blows
Without, and rattles on his humble Roof.
AT last, the muddy Deluge pours along,
Resistless, roaring; dreadful down it comes
From the chapt Mountain, and the mossy Wild,
Tumbling thro' Rocks abrupt, and sounding far:
Then o'er the sanded Valley, floating, spreads,
Calm, sluggish, silent; till again constrain'd,
Betwixt two meeting Hills, it bursts a Way,
Where Rocks, and Woods o'erhang the turbid Stream.
There gathering triple Force, rapid, and deep,
It boils, and wheels, and foams, and thunders thro'.
NATURE! great Parent! whose directing Hand
Rolls round the Seasons of the changeful Year,
How mighty! how majestick are thy Works!
With what a pleasing Dread they swell the Soul,
That sees, astonish'd! and, astonish'd sings!
You too, ye Winds! that now begin to blow,
With boisterous Sweep, I raise my Voice to you.
Where are your Stores, ye viewless Beings! say?
Where your aerial Magazines reserv'd,
Against the Day of Tempest perilous?
In what untravel'd Country of the Air,
Hush'd in still Silence, sleep you, when 'tis calm?
LATE, in the louring Sky, red, fiery, Streaks
Begin to flush about; the reeling Clouds
Stagger with dizzy Aim, as doubting yet
Which Master to obey: while rising, slow,
Sad, in the Leaden-colour'd East, the Moon
Wears a bleak Circle round her sully'd Orb.
Then issues forth the Storm, with loud Control,
And the thin Fabrick of the pillar'd Air
O'erturns, at once. Prone, on th'uncertain Main,
Descends th'Etherial Force, and plows its Waves,
With dreadful Rift: from the mid-Deep, appears,
Surge after Surge, the rising, wat'ry, War.
Whitening, the angry Billows rowl immense,
And roar their Terrors, thro' the shuddering Soul
Of feeble Man, amidst their Fury caught,
And, dash'd upon his Fate: Then, o'er the Cliff,
Where dwells the Sea-Mew, unconfin'd, they fly,
And, hurrying, swallow up the steril Shore.
THE Mountain growls; and all its sturdy Sons
Stoop to the Bottom of the Rocks they shade:
Lone, on its Midnight-Side, and all aghast,
The dark, way-faring, Stranger, breathless, toils,
And climbs against the Blast --
Low, waves the rooted Forest, vex'd, and sheds
What of its leafy Honours yet remains.
Thus, struggling thro' the dissipated Grove,
The whirling Tempest raves along the Plain;
And, on the Cottage thacht, or lordly Dome,
Keen-fastening, shakes 'em to the solid Base.
Sleep, frighted, flies; the hollow Chimney howls,
The Windows rattle, and the Hinges creak.
THEN, too, they say, thro' all the burthen'd Air,
Long Groans are heard, shrill Sounds, and distant Sighs,
That, murmur'd by the Demon of the Night,
Warn the devoted Wretch of Woe, and Death!
Wild Uproar lords it wide: the Clouds commixt,
With Stars, swift-gliding, sweep along the Sky.
All Nature reels. -- But hark! the Almighty speaks:
Instant, the chidden Storm begins to pant,
And dies, at once, into a noiseless Calm.
AS yet, 'tis Midnight's Reign; the weary Clouds,
Slow-meeting, mingle into solid Gloom:
Now, while the drousy World lies lost in Sleep,
Let me associate with the low-brow'd Night,
And Contemplation, her sedate Compeer;
Let me shake off th'intrusive Cares of Day,
And lay the medling Senses all aside.
AND now, ye lying Vanities of Life!
You ever-tempting, ever-cheating Train!
Where are you now? and what is your Amount?
Vexation, Disappointment, and Remorse.
Sad, sickening, Thought! and yet, deluded Man,
A Scene of wild, disjointed, Visions past,
And broken Slumbers, rises, still resolv'd,
With new-flush'd Hopes, to run your giddy Round.
FATHER of Light, and Life! Thou Good Supreme!
O! teach me what is Good! teach me thy self!
Save me from Folly, Vanity and Vice,
From every low Pursuit! and feed my Soul,
With Knowledge, conscious Peace, and Vertue pure,
Sacred, substantial, never-fading Bliss!
LO! from the livid East, or piercing North,
Thick Clouds ascend, in whose capacious Womb,
A vapoury Deluge lies, to Snow congeal'd:
Heavy, they roll their fleecy World along;
And the Sky saddens with th'impending Storm.
Thro' the hush'd Air, the whitening Shower descends,
At first, thin-wavering; till, at last, the Flakes
Fall broad, and wide, and fast, dimming the Day,
With a continual Flow. See! sudden, hoar'd,
The Woods beneath the stainless Burden bow,
Blackning, along the mazy Stream it melts;
Earth's universal Face, deep-hid, and chill,
Is all one, dazzling, Waste. The Labourer-Ox
Stands cover'd o'er with Snow, and then demands
The Fruit of all his Toil. The Fowls of Heaven,
Tam'd by the cruel Season, croud around
The winnowing Store, and claim the little Boon,
That Providence allows. The foodless Wilds
Pour forth their brown Inhabitants; the Hare,
Tho' timorous of Heart, and hard beset
By Death, in various Forms, dark Snares, and Dogs,
And more unpitying Men, the Garden seeks,
Urg'd on by fearless Want. The bleating Kind
Eye the bleak Heavens, and next, the glistening Earth,
With Looks of dumb Despair; then sad, dispers'd,
Dig, for the wither'd Herb, thro' Heaps of Snow.
NOW, Shepherds, to your helpless Charge be kind;
Baffle the raging Year, and fill their Penns
With Food, at will: lodge them below the Blast,
And watch them strict; for from the bellowing East,
In this dire Season, oft the Whirlwind's Wing
Sweeps up the Burthen of whole wintry Plains,
In one fierce Blast, and o'er th'unhappy Flocks,
Lodg'd in the Hollow of two neighbouring Hills,
The billowy Tempest whelms; till, upwards urg'd,
The Valley to a shining Mountain swells,
That curls its Wreaths amid the freezing Sky.
NOW, all amid the Rigours of the Year,
In the wild Depth of Winter, while without
The ceaseless Winds blow keen, be my Retreat
A rural, shelter'd, solitary, Scene;
Where ruddy Fire, and beaming Tapers join
To chase the chearless Gloom: there let me sit,
And hold high Converse with the mighty Dead,
Sages of ancient Time, as Gods rever'd,
As Gods beneficent, who blest Mankind,
With Arts, and Arms, and humaniz'd a World,
Rous'd at th'inspiring Thought -- I throw aside
The long-liv'd Volume, and, deep-musing, hail
The sacred Shades, that, slowly-rising, pass
Before my wondering Eyes -- First, Socrates,
Truth's early Champion, Martyr for his God:
Solon, the next, who built his Commonweal,
On Equity's firm Base: Lycurgus, then,
Severely good, and him of rugged Rome,
Numa, who soften'd her rapacious Sons.
Cimon sweet-soul'd, and Aristides just.
Unconquer'd Cato, virtuous in Extreme;
With that attemper'd Heroe, mild, and firm,
Who wept the Brother, while the Tyrant bled.
Scipio, the humane Warriour, gently brave,
Fair Learning's Friend; who early sought the Shade,
To dwell, with Innocence, and Truth, retir'd.
And, equal to the best, the Theban, He
Who, single, rais'd his Country into Fame.
Thousands behind, the Boast of Greece and Rome,
Whom Vertue owns, the Tribute of a Verse
Demand, but who can count the Stars of Heaven?
Who sing their Influence on this lower World?
But see who yonder comes! nor comes alone,
With sober State, and of majestic Mien,
The Sister-Muses in his Train -- 'Tis He!
Maro! the best of Poets, and of Men!
Great Homer too appears, of daring Wing!
Parent of Song! and, equal, by his Side,
The British Muse, join'd Hand in Hand, they walk,
Darkling, nor miss their Way to Fame's Ascent.
Society divine! Immortal Minds!
Still visit thus my Nights, for you reserv'd,
And mount my soaring Soul to Deeds like yours.
Silence! thou lonely Power! the Door be thine:
See, on the hallow'd Hour, that none intrude,
Save Lycidas, the Friend, with Sense refin'd,
Learning digested well, exalted Faith,
Unstudy'd Wit, and Humour ever gay.
CLEAR Frost succeeds, and thro' the blew Serene,
For Sight too fine, th'Ætherial Nitre flies,
To bake the Glebe, and bind the slip'ry Flood.
This of the wintry Season is the Prime;
Pure are the Days, and lustrous are the Nights,
Brighten'd with starry Worlds, till then unseen.
Mean while, the Orient, darkly red, breathes forth
An Icy Gale, that, in its mid Career,
Arrests the bickering Stream. The nightly Sky,
And all her glowing Constellations pour
Their rigid Influence down: It freezes on
Till Morn, late-rising, o'er the drooping World,
Lifts her pale Eye, unjoyous: then appears
The various Labour of the silent Night,
The pendant Isicle, the Frost-Work fair,
Where thousand Figures rise, the crusted Snow,
Tho' white, made whiter, by the fining North.
On blithsome Frolics bent, the youthful Swains,
While every Work of Man is laid at Rest,
Rush o'er the watry Plains, and, shuddering, view
The fearful Deeps below: or with the Gun,
And faithful Spaniel, range the ravag'd Fields,
And, adding to the Ruins of the Year,
Distress the Feathery, or the Footed Game.
BUT hark! the nightly Winds, with hollow Voice,
Blow, blustering, from the South -- the Frost subdu'd,
Gradual, resolves into a weeping Thaw.
Spotted, the Mountains shine: loose Sleet descends,
And floods the Country round: the Rivers swell,
Impatient for the Day. -- Those sullen Seas,
That wash th'ungenial Pole, will rest no more,
Beneath the Shackles of the mighty North;
But, rousing all their Waves, resistless heave, --
And hark! -- the length'ning Roar, continuous, runs
Athwart the rifted Main; at once, it bursts,
And piles a thousand Mountains to the Clouds!
Ill fares the Bark, the Wretches' last Resort,
That, lost amid the floating Fragments, moors
Beneath the Shelter of an Icy Isle;
While Night o'erwhelms the Sea, and Horror looks
More horrible. Can human Hearts endure
Th'assembled Mischiefs, that besiege them round:
Unlist'ning Hunger, fainting Weariness,
The Roar of Winds, and Waves, the Crush of Ice,
Now, ceasing, now, renew'd, with louder Rage,
And bellowing round the Main: Nations remote,
Shook from their Midnight-Slumbers, deem they hear
Portentous Thunder, in the troubled Sky.
More to embroil the Deep, Leviathan,
And his unweildy Train, in horrid Sport,
Tempest the loosen'd Brine; while, thro' the Gloom,
Far, from the dire, unhospitable Shore,
The Lyon's Rage, the Wolf's sad Howl is heard,
And all the fell Society of Night.
Yet, Providence, that ever-waking Eye
Looks down, with Pity, on the fruitless Toil
Of Mortals, lost to Hope, and lights them safe,
Thro' all this dreary Labyrinth of Fate.
'TIS done! -- Dread WINTER has subdu'd the Year,
And reigns, tremenduous, o'er the desart Plains!
How dead the Vegetable Kingdom lies!
How dumb the Tuneful! Horror wide extends
His solitary Empire -- Now, fond Man!
Behold thy pictur'd Life: pass some few Years,
Thy flow'ring SPRING, thy short-liv'd SUMMER's Strength,
Thy sober AUTUMN, fading into Age,
And pale, concluding, WINTER shuts thy Scene,
And shrouds Thee in the Grave -- where now, are fled
Those Dreams of Greatness? those unsolid Hopes
Of Happiness? those Longings after Fame?
Those restless Cares? those busy, bustling Days?
Those Nights of secret Guilt? those veering Thoughts,
Flutt'ring 'twixt Good, and Ill, that shar'd thy Life?
All, now, are vanish'd! Vertue, sole, survives,
Immortal, Mankind's never-failing Friend,
His Guide to Happiness on high -- and see!
'Tis come, the Glorious Morn! the second Birth
Of Heaven, and Earth! -- awakening Nature hears
Th'Almighty Trumpet's Voice, and starts to Life,
Renew'd, unfading. Now, th'Eternal Scheme,
That Dark Perplexity, that Mystic Maze,
Which Sight cou'd never trace, nor Heart conceive,
To Reason's Eye, refin'd, clears up apace.
Angels, and Men, astonish'd, pause -- and dread
To travel thro' the Depths of Providence,
Untry'd, unbounded. Ye vain Learned! see,
And, prostrate in the Dust, adore that Power,
And Goodness, oft arraign'd. See now the Cause,
Why conscious Worth, oppress'd, in secret long
Mourn'd, unregarded: Why the Good Man's Share
In Life, was Gall, and Bitterness of Soul:
Why the lone Widow, and her Orphans, pin'd,
In starving Solitude; while Luxury,
In Palaces, lay prompting her low Thought,
To form unreal Wants: why Heaven-born Faith,
And Charity, prime Grace! wore the red Marks
Of Persecution's Scourge: why licens'd Pain,
That cruel Spoiler, that embosom'd Foe,
Imbitter'd all our Bliss. Ye Good Distrest!
Ye Noble Few! that, here, unbending, stand
Beneath Life's Pressures -- yet a little while,
And all your Woes are past. Time swiftly fleets,
And wish'd Eternity, approaching, brings
Life undecaying, Love without Allay,
Pure flowing Joy, and Happiness sincere.

Now when I have a cold
I am careful with my cold,
I consult a physician
And I do as I am told.
I muffle up my torso
In woolly woolly garb,
And I quaff great flagons
Of sodium bicarb.
I munch on aspirin,
I lunch on water,
And I wouldn’t dream of osculating
Anybody’s daughter,
And to anybody’s son
I wouldn’t say howdy,
For I am a sufferer
Magna cum laude.
I don’t like germs,
But I’ll keep the germs I’ve got.
Will I take a chance of spreading them?
Definitely not.
I sneeze out the window
And I cough up the flue,
And I live like a hermit
Till the germs get through.
And because I’m considerate,
Because I’m wary,
I am treated by my friends
Like Typhoid Mary.
Now when you have a cold
You are careless with your cold,
You are cocky as a gangster
Who has just been paroled.
You ignore your physician,
You eat steaks and oxtails,
You stuff yourself with starches,
You drink lots of cocktails,
And you claim that gargling
Is a time of waste,
And you won’t take soda
For you don’t like the taste,
And you prowl around parties
Full of selfish bliss,
And greet your hostess
With a genial kiss.
You convert yourself
Into a deadly missle,
You exhale Hello’s
Like a steamboat wistle.
You sneeze in the subway
And you cough at dances,
And let everybody else
Take their own good chances.
You’re a bronchial boor,
A bacterial blighter,
And you get more invitations
Than a gossip writer.
Yes, your throat is froggy,
And your eyes are swimmy,
And you hand is clammy,
And you nose is brimmy,
But you woo my girls
And their hearts you jimmy
While I sit here
With the cold you gimmy.

I tell my secret? No indeed, not I:
Perhaps some day, who knows?
But not today; it froze, and blows, and snows,
And you're too curious: fie!
You want to hear it? well:
Only, my secret's mine, and I won't tell.
Or, after all, perhaps there's none:
Suppose there is no secret after all,
But only just my fun.
Today's a nipping day, a biting day;
In which one wants a shawl,
A veil, a cloak, and other wraps:
I cannot ope to every one who taps,
And let the draughts come whistling thro' my hall;
Come bounding and surrounding me,
Come buffeting, astounding me,
Nipping and clipping thro' my wraps and all.
I wear my mask for warmth: who ever shows
His nose to Russian snows
To be pecked at by every wind that blows?
You would not peck? I thank you for good will,
Believe, but leave that truth untested still.
Spring's and expansive time: yet I don't trust
March with its peck of dust,
Nor April with its rainbow-crowned brief showers,
Nor even May, whose flowers
One frost may wither thro' the sunless hours.
Perhaps some languid summer day,
When drowsy birds sing less and less,
And golden fruit is ripening to excess,
If there's not too much sun nor too much cloud,
And the warm wind is neither still nor loud,
Perhaps my secret I may say,
Or you may guess.

I saw the city's towers on a luminous pale-gray sky;
Beyond them a hill of the softest mistiest green,
With naught but frost and the coming of night between,
And a long thin cloud above the colour of August rye.
I sat in the midst of a plain on my snowshoes with bended knee
Where the thin wind stung my cheeks,
And the hard snow ran in little ripples and peaks,
Like the fretted floor of a white and petrified sea.
And a strange peace gathered about my soul and shone,
As I sat reflecting there,
In a world so mystically fair,
So deathly silent--I so utterly alone.

When winter winds are piercing chill,
And through the hawthorn blows the gale,
With solemn feet I tread the hill,
That overbrows the lonely vale.
O'er the bare upland, and away
Through the long reach of desert woods,
The embracing sunbeams chastely play,
And gladden these deep solitudes.
Where, twisted round the barren oak,
The summer vine in beauty clung,
And summer winds the stillness broke,
The crystal icicle is hung.
Where, from their frozen urns, mute springs
Pour out the river's gradual tide,
Shrilly the skater's iron rings,
And voices fill the woodland side.
Alas! how changed from the fair scene,
When birds sang out their mellow lay,
And winds were soft, and woods were green,
And the song ceased not with the day!
But still wild music is abroad,
Pale, desert woods! within your crowd;
And gathering winds, in hoarse accord,
Amid the vocal reeds pipe loud.
Chill airs and wintry winds! my ear
Has grown familiar with your song;
I hear it in the opening year,
I listen, and it cheers me long.

A glint of early morning sun reflected
in the shiny waxed panels of the parked cars
with blinding rays of light from the mirrored wings
bursting star like on my eyes from a focal intensity
only a pale shadow of the low lying god in my heaven
which hung with unknown colour in a pale blue sky.
The sole of my shoe crunched a gravel chipping
as it pressed into the dry surface of the tarmac drive
making a small mark in memory of my passing
A butterfly with painted wings left its soft repose
and dipped and rose upon the gentle blowing wind
the same air that filled my body with breath and life.

Though I have only experimented with it briefly, I am a believer in ‘Lucid Dreaming’
Do you ever create poetry in your dreams? Or do you perhaps compose music?
Do you solve complex problems? Or have you ever thought up a joke?
I have done all of the above and of course many more entertaining things.
Dreams amaze and delight me. Do you remember your dreams?
I often do and one morning woke up with this small poem in complete form.
It is not the greatest poem, but I was amazed nonetheless. I will share it now below:
Dream Work
As sure as I am shooting
As far as I can tell
All things of worth
Persist in dreams
So make them serve you well.

How do you tackle your work each day?
Are you scared of the job you find?
Do you grapple the task that comes your way
With a confident, easy mind?
Do you stand right up to the work ahead
Or fearfully pause to view it?
Do you start to toil with a sense of dread?
Or feel that you're going to do it?
You can do as much as you think you can,
But you'll never accomplish more;
If you're afraid of yourself, young man,
There's little for you in store.
For failure comes from the inside first,
It's there if we only knew it,
And you can win, though you face the worst,
If you feel that you're going to do it.
Success! It's found in the soul of you,
And not in the realm of luck!
The world will furnish the work to do,
But you must provide the pluck.
You can do whatever you think you can,
It's all in the way you view it.
It's all in the start you make, young man:
You must feel that you're going to do it.
How do you tackle your work each day?
With confidence clear, or dread?
What to yourself do you stop and say
When a new task lies ahead?
What is the thought that is in your mind?
Is fear ever running through it?
If so, just tackle the next you find
By thinking you're going to do it.
--From "A Heap o' Linin'," by Edgar A. Guest
I tackle my terrible job each day
With a fear that is well defined;
And I grapple the task that comes my way
With no confidence in my mind.
I try to evade the work ahead,
As I fearfully pause to view it,
And I start to toil with a sense of dread,
And doubt that I'm going to do it.
I can't do as much as I think I can,
And I never accomplish more.
I am scared to death of myself, old man,
As I may have observed before.
I've read the proverbs of Charley Schwab,
Carnegie, and Marvin Hughitt;
But whenever I tackle a difficult job,
O gosh! I hate to do it!
I try to believe in my vaunted power
With that confident kind of bluff,
But somebody tells me The Conning Tower
Is nothing but awful stuff.
And I take up my impotent pen that night,
And idly and sadly chew it,
As I try to write something merry and bright,
And I know that I shall not do it.
And that's how I tackle my work each day--
With terror and fear and dread--
And all I can see is a long array
Of empty columns ahead.
And those are the thoughts that are in my mind,
And that's about all there's to it.
As long as there's work, of whatever kind,
I'm certain I cannot do it.

On no work of words now for three lean months in the
bloody
Belly of the rich year and the big purse of my body
I bitterly take to task my poverty and craft:
To take to give is all, return what is hungrily given
Puffing the pounds of manna up through the dew to heaven,
The lovely gift of the gab bangs back on a blind shaft.
To lift to leave from treasures of man is pleasing death
That will rake at last all currencies of the marked breath
And count the taken, forsaken mysteries in a bad dark.
To surrender now is to pay the expensive ogre twice.
Ancient woods of my blood, dash down to the nut of the seas
If I take to burn or return this world which is each man's
work.

the light is fading out
we come together
we each hold a candle
to form a greater light
as you see
teamwork is the best way

We stand in the rain in a long line
waiting at Ford Highland Park. For work.
You know what work is—if you're
old enough to read this you know what
work is, although you may not do it.
Forget you. This is about waiting,
shifting from one foot to another.
Feeling the light rain falling like mist
into your hair, blurring your vision
until you think you see your own brother
ahead of you, maybe ten places.
You rub your glasses with your fingers,
and of course it's someone else's brother,
narrower across the shoulders than
yours but with the same sad slouch, the grin
that does not hide the stubbornness,
the sad refusal to give in to
rain, to the hours wasted waiting,
to the knowledge that somewhere ahead
a man is waiting who will say, 'No,
we're not hiring today,' for any
reason he wants. You love your brother,
now suddenly you can hardly stand
the love flooding you for your brother,
who's not beside you or behind or
ahead because he's home trying to
sleep off a miserable night shift
at Cadillac so he can get up
before noon to study his German.
Works eight hours a night so he can sing
Wagner, the opera you hate most,
the worst music ever invented.
How long has it been since you told him
you loved him, held his wide shoulders,
opened your eyes wide and said those words,
and maybe kissed his cheek? You've never
done something so simple, so obvious,
not because you're too young or too dumb,
not because you're jealous or even mean
or incapable of crying in
the presence of another man, no,
just because you don't know what work is.

Hell is a place I have to go
Hell is a place that I truly know
I have to go to hell
I have to hear that ringing bell
I must scrape through the day
Just need to make some bread every day
Hell is a place that makes me pay
Hell is a place I hate
Hell is a meal that leaves a bitter taste
Hell is a place I wake up and go to
Is Hell a place you call work, too?

Work, sleep, work, sleep,
Work, sleep, work, sleep,
Work, sleep, work, sleep,
Work:
Work, sleep, work, sleep,
Work, sleep, work, sleep,
Work, sleep, work, sleep,
Work.
Oh free me please with gentle ease
From work, sleep, work, sleep, work!
This odium, pounding tedium
Of my work, sleep, work, sleep, work.
Just whisk me off to lands afar
From work, sleep, work, sleep, work -
That grinding train of rhythmic pain
Called ‘Work, sleep, work, sleep, work.’
Poor neural circuits fizzle and pop
In work, sleep, work, sleep, work,
In trying to make some sense of all this
Work, sleep, work, sleep, work.
But Hark! I see a golden gleam -
A saving spirit of hope:
‘You’re fired! ’ He screams. What news to bear,
This wondrous hangman’s rope!
So now I’m free, released from all this
Work, sleep, work, sleep, work -
Eternal peace and rest for me, no
Work, sleep, work, sleep, work.

Work in the morning
Work at noon
Work in the afternoon
and work in the night.
Work, work, work
One wakes up thinking of work
eating and planning for work
sleeping and dreaming of work.
Work, work, work
work with passion
work with obsession
derive joy from work
or take  work as the sole end.
Work, work, work
Give work the chance
never to rule over your life.
Work is only a tiny part
of who you are.

If I make the lashes dark
And the eyes more bright
And the lips more scarlet,
Or ask if all be right
From mirror after mirror,
No vanity's displayed:
I'm looking for the face I had
Before the world was made.
What if I look upon a man
As though on my beloved,
And my blood be cold the while
And my heart unmoved?
Why should he think me cruel
Or that he is betrayed?
I'd have him love the thing that was
Before the world was made.

I am much too alone in this world, yet not alone
enough
to truly consecrate the hour.
I am much too small in this world, yet not small
enough
to be to you just object and thing,
dark and smart.
I want my free will and want it accompanying
the path which leads to action;
and want during times that beg questions,
where something is up,
to be among those in the know,
or else be alone.
I want to mirror your image to its fullest perfection,
never be blind or too old
to uphold your weighty wavering reflection.
I want to unfold.
Nowhere I wish to stay crooked, bent;
for there I would be dishonest, untrue.
I want my conscience to be
true before you;
want to describe myself like a picture I observed
for a long time, one close up,
like a new word I learned and embraced,
like the everday jug,
like my mother's face,
like a ship that carried me along
through the deadliest storm.

Thou warden of the western gate, above Manhatten Bay,
The fogs of doubt that hid thy face are driven clean away:
Thine eyes at last look far and clear, thou liftest high thy hand
To spread the light of liberty world-wide for every land.
No more thou dreamest of a peace reserved alone for thee,
While friends are fighting for thy cause beyond the guardian sea:
The battle that they wage is thine; thou fallest if they fall;
The swollen flood of Prussian pride will sweep unchecked o'er all.
O cruel is the conquer-lust in Hohenzollern brains;
The paths they plot to gain their goal are dark with shameful stains:
No faith they keep, no law revere, no god but naked Might; --
They are the foemen of mankind. Up, Liberty, and smite!
Britain, and France, and Italy, and Russia newly born,
Have waited for thee in the night. Oh, come as comes the morn.
Serene and strong and full of faith, America, arise,
With steady hope and mighty help to join th brave Allies.
O dearest country of my heart, home of the high desire,
Make clean thy soul for sacrifice on Freedom's altar-fire:
For thou must suffer, thou must fight, until the warlords cease,
And all the peoples lift their heads in liberty and peace.

Is that the only way we can become like Indians, like Rhinoceri,
like Quartz Crystals, like organic farmers, like what we imagine
Adam & Eve to’ve been, caressing each other with trembling limbs
before the Snake of Revolutionary Sex wrapped itself round
The Tree of Knowledge? What would Roque Dalton joke about lately
teeth chattering like a machine gun as he dabated mass tactics
with his Companeros? Necessary to kill the Yanquis with big bomb
Yes but don’t do it by yourself, better consult your mother
to get the Correct Line of Thought, if not consult Rimbaud once he got his leg cut off
or Lenin after his second stroke sending a message thru Mrs Krupskaya
to the rude Georgian, & just before his deathly fit when the Cheka aides
outside
his door looked in coldly assuring him his affairs were in good hands no need to move - What sickness at the
pit of his stomach moved up to
his brain?
What thought Khlebnikov on the hungry train exposing his stomach to the
sun?
Or Mayakovsky before the bullet hit his brain, what sharp propaganda for
action
on the Bureaucratic Battlefield in the Ministry of Collective Agriculture in
Ukraine?
What Slogan for Futurist architects or epic hymn for masses of Communist
Party Card holders in Futurity
on the conduct of the world seeking beauty against Government?

The face of all the world is changed, I think,
Since first I heard the footsteps of thy soul
Move still, oh, still, beside me, as they stole
Betwixt me and the dreadful outer brink
Of obvious death, where I, who thought to sink,
Was caught up into love, and taught the whole
Of life in a new rhythm. The cup of dole
God gave for baptism, I am fain to drink,
And praise its sweetness, Sweet, with thee anear.
The names of country, heaven, are changed away
For where thou art or shalt be, there or here;
And this . . . this lute and song . . . loved yesterday,
(The singing angels know) are only dear
Because thy name moves right in what they say.

Through the world which the Spirit creative and kind
First formed out of chaos, I fly like the wind,
Until on the strand
Of its billows I land,
My anchor cast forth where the breeze blows no more,
And Creation's last boundary stands on the shore.
I saw infant stars into being arise,
For thousands of years to roll on through the skies;
I saw them in play
Seek their goal far away,--
For a moment my fugitive gaze wandered on,--
I looked round me, and lo!--all those bright stars had flown!
Madly yearning to reach the dark kingdom of night.
I boldly steer on with the speed of the light;
All misty and drear
The dim heavens appear,
While embryo systems and seas at their source
Are whirling around the sun-wanderer's course.
When sudden a pilgrim I see drawing near
Along the lone path,--"Stay!  What seekest thou here?"
"My bark, tempest-tossed,
I sail toward the land where the breeze blows no more,
And Creation's last boundary stands on the shore."
"Stay, thou sailest in vain!  'Tis INFINITY yonder!"--
"'Tis INFINITY, too, where thou, pilgrim, wouldst wander!
Eagle-thoughts that aspire,
Let your proud pinions tire!
For 'tis here that sweet phantasy, bold to the last,
Her anchor in hopeless dejection must cast!"

I perceive the world as a playground
Where dawn and dusk appear in eternal rounds
In His Universal form is a plaything the throne of Solomon
The miracles of the Messiah seem so ordinary in my eyes
Without name I cannot comprehend any form
Illusionary but is the identity of all objects
My anguish envelopes the entire desert
Silently flows the river in front of my floods
Ask not what separation has done to me
Just see your poise when I come in front of you
Truly you say that I am egotistical and proud
It is the reflection, O friend, in your limited mirror
To appreciate the style and charm of conversation
Just bring in the goblet and wine
Hatred manifests due to my envious mind
Thus I say, don't take his name in front of me
Faith stops me while temptations attract
Inspite of Kaaba behind and church ahead
I am the Lover, yet notorious is my charm
Thus Laila calls names to Majnu in front of me
'Dies' not one though the union is a delight
In premonition of the separation night
Alas, this be it, the bloody separation wave
I know not what else is in store ahead of me
Though the hands don't move, the eyes are alive
Wine and goblet, let them stay in front of me
Says 'Ghalib'
Conscience is companion and trusted friend
Don't pass any judgments in front of me.

501
This World is not Conclusion.
A Species stands beyond—
Invisible, as Music—
But positive, as Sound—
It beckons, and it baffles—
Philosophy—don't know—
And through a Riddle, at the last—
Sagacity, must go—
To guess it, puzzles scholars—
To gain it, Men have borne
Contempt of Generations
And Crucifixion, shown—
Faith slips—and laughs, and rallies—
Blushes, if any see—
Plucks at a twig of Evidence—
And asks a Vane, the way—
Much Gesture, from the Pulpit—
Strong Hallelujahs roll—
Narcotics cannot still the Tooth
That nibbles at the soul—

When I cast a look around the world,
I marvel at what I see and hear.
Why, I ponder , is the world at war?
Why, I lament, should the world know no peace?
You world Powers! Put your ammunition in its arsenal.
Enough of nuclear wars, enough of threats of war.
The Lilliputian Third World walking under your Gangatuan feet,
Was created by God just as God created you.
Your duty, it is to help it outgrow its groping stage.
There should be no re-occurrence of the war in Vietnam,
No more fracas in Surinam,
No repeat performance of the Soweto imbroglio.
Rwanda should not be put asunder.
Enough of the Somalia saga.
Ethiopia and Liberia experience we want no more.
Let peace reign in Bosnia Herzegovina.
'No' to war I say, 'Yes' to peace I maintain.
War does no good to anyone.
War kills, war maims, war annihilates.
Turmoil and tribulation all characterize war.
Famine and deprivation are all babies of war.
Wars tear families apart, refugees abound everywhere.
Many are rendered homeless, a lot become hopeless.
Causalities of war in the scenes of ravage and wreck,
Letter the ground in their hundreds and thousands.
Let's have a new world order.
Let's make peace our watchword.
Let peace reign supreme in the world.
Peace brings joy; peace puts the mind at rest.
The world must embrace peace, not war.
The world must live, in peace, not in pieces.
'No' to war I say, 'Yes' to peace I maintain.

