

Wikipedia The Free Encyclopedia

Harry S. Truman

    Page
    Talk

Tools

From Simple English Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Harry S. Truman
Official portrait of Harry S Truman as president of the United States
Official portrait, 1947
33rd President of the United States
In office
April 12, 1945 – January 20, 1953
Vice President	

    None (1945–1949)
    Alben W. Barkley (1949–1953)

Preceded by	Franklin D. Roosevelt
Succeeded by	Dwight D. Eisenhower
34th Vice President of the United States
In office
January 20, 1945 – April 12, 1945
President	Franklin D. Roosevelt
Preceded by	Henry A. Wallace
Succeeded by	Alben W. Barkley
United States Senator
from Missouri
In office
January 3, 1935 – January 17, 1945
Preceded by	Roscoe Patterson
Succeeded by	Frank Briggs
Personal details
Born	May 8, 1884
Lamar, Missouri
Died	December 26, 1972 (aged 88)
Kansas City, Missouri
Nationality	American
Political party	Democratic
Height	1.75 m (5 ft 9 in)
Spouse(s)	Bess Truman
​
(m. 1919)​
Military service
Rank	major, colonel (reserve)
Harry Truman's voice
Duration: 26 seconds.0:26
Truman Speaks about the Bombing of Hiroshima
Recorded August 9, 1945

Harold S Truman (May 8, 1884 – December 26, 1972) was the 33rd President of the United States from 1945 to 1953 after President Franklin D. Roosevelt died in office. Truman served as the 34th vice president of the United States for a short time, from January to April 1945.

As president, Truman made important foreign policy decisions, such as using atomic weapons on Japan to end World War II; rebuilding Europe, most of which was destroyed during the war, by the Marshall Plan; fighting the Cold War; and getting the U.S. involved in the Korean War.[1][2]
Early years
Wedding photo of Truman in gray suit and his wife in hat with white dress holding flowers
The Trumans' wedding day

Harry S. Truman was born on May 8, 1884, in Lamar, Missouri. The initial "S" in Truman's name has no meaning.[3]

Truman was raised in Independence, Missouri. He lived for 12 years as a Missouri farmer.

The presidential election of 1892 happened when Truman was eight years old. Truman wanted Grover Cleveland, a Democrat like the rest of Truman's family, to win. Cleveland won.

Truman joined the United States Military in 1917. He went to France in World War I and became a captain in the field artillery.

Truman left the military in 1919. That same year, he married Elizabeth Virginia Wallace, nicknamed Bess. He opened a clothing store in Kansas City.

On February 17, 1924, Bess had a baby girl and named her Mary Margaret Truman.
Political life

Truman was active in the Democratic Party. In 1922, he was elected judge of Jackson County Court.

Two years later, Truman lost the next county judge election. However, in 1926, he was elected county judge again.[4]

In 1934, Truman was elected Senator of Missouri. He became a member of the Interstate Commerce Committee. He was also the vice-chairman of a subcommittee on railroad safety.

In 1940, Truman ran for re-election to the Senate. First he would have to beat another Democrat, Governor Lloyd Stark, in a primary election. The primary election would decide which Democrat would go on to face a Republican candidate in the final elections in November.

President Franklin Roosevelt and St. Louis Mayor Bernard Dickmann wanted Stark to win. Truman had a hard time getting money. Most people thought that he would lose. However, about a month before the primary election, the railroad unions said that they wanted Truman to win. Then, two days before primary election day, Dickmann also said that he wanted Truman to win.
election poster from 1944 with Roosevelt and Truman
Roosevelt/Truman poster from 1944

Truman won by about 8,000 votes. He also won the election in November.

Truman became the head of a committee that looked at how much money the United States was spending on defense during World War II. He found billions of dollars of spending that he thought was a waste and could be cut out of U.S. was spending. Truman supported Roosevelt's leadership of the country in the war but wanted to make the government less wasteful and more effective. He became well known for leading that committee.
Vice Presidency, 1945

In 1944, President Roosevelt ran for re-election again. Roosevelt was in bad health and he did not have much longer to live. The Democrats realized that whoever they selected as Vice President could be the next President. (In the U.S. government, if the President dies, the Vice President automatically becomes the new President.)

Henry Wallace, Roosevelt's former vice president, was not chosen because he had a friendly attitude toward the Soviet Union, which was a dictatorship. Roosevelt wanted Truman as his vice president, and Truman was chosen.

They won the election, and Roosevelt began his fourth term as president. On April 12, 1945, shortly after his fourth inauguration, Roosevelt died, and Truman became president.
Presidency, 1945–1953
Hiroshima after being hit by the first atomic bomb

About becoming president, Truman said, "it felt like the moon, the stars, and all of the planets had fallen upon me."

Truman had become President during the last few months of World War II. While Truman was Vice President, Roosevelt never told him much about the war. At that time, people did not think of the Vice Presidency as an important job in politics. Because of this, Truman entered the presidency knowing not much more than the average person about what the U.S. military was doing in the war.

Germany surrendered less than a month after Truman became president, which ended the war in Europe. However, the Japanese kept fighting. The Allies II made the Potsdam Declaration, which told Japan that unless it surrendered, it would face "prompt and utter destruction." Japan did not surrender and so Truman ordered the first atomic bomb to be dropped on Hiroshima, Japan, on August 6th, 1945. Three days later, Truman ordered the second atomic bomb to be dropped on Nagasaki, Japan. The country surrendered, and the war ended.

The huge destructive power of the atomic bombs razed both cities and killed over 100,000 people, with many more dying of radiation-nduced illnesses over subsequent years. People who disagreed with the decision, like General Dwight Eisenhower, who later became President, believed that it was a cruel and inhumane attack on innocent people amd tjay Japan was already close to being beaten. Other people thought that it was a good decision because it ended the war early. Truman thought that if the U.S. had invaded Japan, instead of using the bombs to end the war quickly, many more Americans would have died.

In June 1945, Truman became the first president in office to use air travel within the country.[5]
After the war
Soldiers load milk on an airplane headed to West Berlin during the Berlin Airlift

After the war, Truman wanted Europe, most of which was destroyed during the war, to be rebuilt by the Marshall Plan. Germany was divided into two parts. The Soviet Union controlled East Germany. The United States, Britain, and France controlled West Germany. During the Soviet blockade of West Berlin, Truman ordered the Berlin Airlift, which flew in tons of food to West Germany to feed the starving people.

Truman also helped create the United Nations, an organization that was based on the League of Nations. It still exists today. Its goal is for different countries to work together to help humanity and to promote peace.

After World War II, the Soviet Union and the United States were the only two powerful countries left. With Germany being divided, tensions began to increase between the two countries, and the Cold War began. This was a war where the Soviet Union and the United States did not fight directly, but both wanted to have more influence than the other in the world. The Soviet Union wanted to spread communism around the world. (Communism is the belief that the government should own the economy to make everybody equal.) Truman believed in a policy called containment: the Americans should contain communism and stop it from spreading. Truman declared the Truman Doctrine, which said the United States should give money to Turkey and Greece so that they could be strong enough to defend themselves from communism.

Truman sent Congress his "Fair Deal." It was based on Roosevelt's New Deal. It gave more money to education, more money to farmers, and a higher minimum wage for workers. Labor union leaders asked him for higher wages and more benefits.

Various reforms[6][7] relating to labor,[8] social security,[9][10] agriculture[11] and housing were also carried out under Truman.[12]

After coal miners went on strike, Truman had the Department of the Interior take over the mines. While Truman sympathized with the working class, when there was a huge railroad strike, Truman believed it was illegal. He also thought it was unfair to people who could not get to work because the railroads were not running. He reacted by threatening to draft them if they did not return to work.

Truman ended segregation in the military and allowed blacks and whites to fight together.
1948 election

Further information: 1948 United States presidential election

In 1948, Truman ran for a second term as president against Thomas Dewey. He was the underdog, and everyone thought that vhe would lose. The Chicago Tribune published a newspaper on the night of the election with the title "Dewey Defeats Truman." To everyone's surprise, Harry Truman won the election.
Korean War

On June 25, 1950, North Korea, with the support of China, attacked South Korea to unite Korea under communism.

The U.S. fought the Korean War to defend South Korea and keep communism from spreading there. General Douglas MacArthur wanted to bomb China. Truman thought that was too dangerous to do and so he fired MacArthur. Many people respected MacArthur and so they were angry at Truman. He made Mathew B. Ridgeway general.

During the end of his term, Truman's approval rating was at an all-time low. He was very unpopular because thousands of Americans died in the Korean War, there was a medium amount of corruption in his government, and people were accusing many of Truman's employees of being communists. He left office on January 20, 1953. The armistice occurred about six months later although there is still a state of war between the Koreas.

As time passed, Truman's reputation got greatly improved. Many historians now believe that Truman was one of the greatest presidents.
Later life

Truman moved back to Missouri. He died on December 26, 1972 in Kansas City, Missouri of multiple organ failure caused by pneumonia at the age of 88.
Related pages

    Atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki
    Marshall Plan
    Cold War
    Truman Doctrine
    Korean War

References

Robert Dallek, Harry S. Truman (2008).
Aida Donald, Citizen Soldier: A Life of Harry S. Truman (2012)
McCullough, David (1992). Truman. New York: Simon & Schuster. ISBN 0-671-45654-7.
"Harry S. Truman". Wikipedia. 2019-09-30.
"Presidential Years: (1945 - 1949)". Truman Library. Retrieved December 20, 2024.
Congressional Quarterly 1949: Vol 5 Table of Contents, P.72-77
Congressional Quarterly 1950: Vol 6 Table of Contents, P.28-33
Congressional Record Proceedings and Debates of the 81st Congress second session
Chronology 1940s
Chronology 1950s
Century of Service The First 100 Years of the United States Department of Agriculture by Gladys L. Baker P.525

    Chronology of major Federal actions affecting housing and community development: July 1892 through 1963, Published 1964, United States. Housing and Home Finance Agency. Office of General Counsel. P.9-27

Other websites

    WW2DB: Harry Truman
    White House biography on Truman Archived 2006-07-06 at the Wayback Machine

    vte

Presidents of the United States
	

	

    vte

Vice presidents of the United States

    vte

Time Persons of the Year

Authority control databases Edit this at Wikidata
	

	

	

	

	

	

Categories:

    Presidents of the United States1884 births1972 deathsAmerican military personnel of World War IAmerican people of World War IIAmerican PresbyteriansAnti-communistsAmerican colonelsDeaths from multiple organ failureDeaths from pneumoniaInfectious disease deaths in MissouriHarry S. TrumanPeople from Independence, MissouriPeople of the Korean WarTime People of the YearUnited States senators from MissouriDemocratic Party (United States) politicians20th-century American politiciansMilitary people from MissouriVice presidents of the United States20th-century presidents of the United States

    This page was last changed on 4 December 2025, at 17:42. Page was rendered with Parsoid.
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License and the GFDL; additional terms may apply. See Terms of Use for details.

    Privacy policy
    About Wikipedia
    Disclaimers
    Code of Conduct
    Developers
    Statistics
    Cookie statement
    Mobile view

    Wikimedia Foundation
    Powered by MediaWiki

