

Wikipedia The Free Encyclopedia

Herbert Hoover

    Page
    Talk

Tools

From Simple English Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Herbert Hoover
Hoover in 1928
31st President of the United States
In office
March 4, 1929 – March 4, 1933
Vice President	Charles Curtis
Preceded by	Calvin Coolidge
Succeeded by	Franklin D. Roosevelt
3rd United States Secretary of Commerce
In office
March 5, 1921 – August 21, 1928
President	Warren G. Harding
Calvin Coolidge
Preceded by	Joshua W. Alexander
Succeeded by	William F. Whiting
Personal details
Born	Herbert Clark Hoover

August 10, 1874
West Branch, Iowa, U.S.
Died	October 20, 1964 (aged 90)
New York, New York, U.S.
Resting place	Herbert Hoover Presidential Library and Museum
West Branch, Iowa
Political party	Republican
Spouse(s)	Lou Henry
(m. 1899—1944; her death)
Children	Herbert Clark Hoover, Jr.
Allan Henry Hoover
Residence	Stanford, California, U.S.
Alma mater	George Fox University
Stanford University
Profession	Mining engineer
Civil engineer
Businessman
Humanitarian
Signature	Cursive signature in ink
Herbert Hoover's voice
Duration: 1 minute and 3 seconds.1:03
Hoover announcing his plan for economic stimulus
Recorded October 18, 1931

Herbert Clark Hoover (August 10, 1874 – October 20, 1964) was the 31st president of the United States from 1929 to 1933. He was a world-famous mining engineer and humanitarian administrator. As the United States Secretary of Commerce in the 1920s under Presidents Warren G. Harding and Calvin Coolidge, he promoted economic modernization.

Soon after he became president, the Great Depression started. Many people blamed Hoover for not doing enough to help people during that time, and many had to live in shantytowns called "Hoovervilles."
Early life and career

Hoover was born in West Branch, Iowa. He is the first president to be born west of the Mississippi River.

Hoover was a businessman and then became United States Secretary of Commerce. In 1927, Hoover appeared in the first public demonstration of television broadcast.[1]

Hoover and his wife learned Mandarin while he worked in China. They used it in the White House to prevent the staff there from understanding them.[2]
Presidency (1929–1933)

A few months after he was elected, the stock market crashed and the Great Depression was beginning.

Unlike Andrew Mellon and Calvin Coolidge, who believed that the federal government should keep its hands off the economy, Hoover believed that some action from the federal government was necessary.

While he opposed a welfare state, which would give money to people for doing nothing, he wanted to create jobs through several government programs, including the construction of a huge dam, which would be later named Hoover Dam.

Since the federal government received less money in tax revenues because of the bad economy, and the government was spending more money than it was taking in, Hoover tried to increase the government's revenue to balance the budget. He signed the Revenue Act of 1932, which was a large tax increase. He also signed the largest increase in tariffs, taxes on goods that are traded between foreign countries and the United States, increase in American history, which worsened the Great Depression, even though 1,028 economists signed a petition to him to accept it.

Hoover denied giving promised retirement money to poor World War I veterans earlier than what was agreed to and so the Bonus Army assembled in Washington, DC. Hoover ordered the United States Army to force them to leave. That resulted in a bloody conflict which hurt Hoover's reputation.

Hoover was uncharismatic and did not relate to the people well, which made many of them consider him as mean-spirited.

Hoover supported the very unpopular prohibition of alcohol,which made selling alcohol illegal.

While Hoover supported some government involvement in the economy, he was against Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal because he thought that it called for too much government involvement in the economy.

His failure to fix the Great Depression caused his loss of the 1932 election to Roosevelt.
Later life

Hoover later was known for opposing World War II and for chairing both Hoover Commissions to reform the ferderal government's administration.

Hoover died at the age of 90 in New York City on October 20, 1964, from gastrointestinal bleeding caused by colorectal cancer.
References

"Secretary of Commerce Herbert Hoover Participates in the First American Demonstration of Electromechanical Television". History of Information. Retrieved December 27, 2024.

    King, David (2009), Herbert Hoover, Tarrytown, NY: Marshall Cavendish, ISBN 978-0-7614-3626-3, retrieved March 22, 2010

Other websites

    Hoover's White House biography Archived 2009-01-17 at the Wayback Machine
    Claus Bernet: Herbert Hoover, in: BBKL, 30, 2009, 644-653: http://www.bautz.de/bbkl/h/hoover_h_c.shtml

    vte

Presidents of the United States
	

	

    vte

United States Secretaries of Commerce
	

	
Seal of the United States Department of Commerce
	

Categories:

    Presidents of the United States1874 births1964 deathsDeaths from gastrointestinal hemorrhageDeaths from colorectal cancerCancer deaths in New York CityRepublican Party (United States) politiciansWorld War IQuakersHerbert HooverUnited States Secretaries of CommercePoliticians from Iowa20th-century American politicians20th-century presidents of the United States

    This page was last changed on 4 December 2025, at 17:40. Page was rendered with Parsoid.
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License and the GFDL; additional terms may apply. See Terms of Use for details.

    Privacy policy
    About Wikipedia
    Disclaimers
    Code of Conduct
    Developers
    Statistics
    Cookie statement
    Mobile view

    Wikimedia Foundation
    Powered by MediaWiki

