

Wikipedia The Free Encyclopedia

The Jackson 5

    Page
    Talk

Tools

From Simple English Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
The Jackson 5
The Jackson 5 in 1972, from left to right: Tito, Marlon, Michael, Jackie, and Jermaine Jackson
The Jackson 5 in 1972, from left to right: Tito, Marlon, Michael, Jackie, and Jermaine Jackson
Background information
Also known as	The Jacksons
Origin	Gary, Indiana, U.S.
Genres	

    Pop rhythm and blues soul funk disco bubblegum

Years active	

    1964–1989[1][2][3]20012012–present

Labels	

    SteeltownMotownPIREpicCBS

Members	

    Jackie Jackson
    Marlon Jackson

Past member(s)	

    Jermaine Jackson
    Michael Jackson
    Randy Jackson
    Tito Jackson

Website	thejacksons.live

The Jackson 5 is an American musical boy band group who played R&B, pop, soul, disco, and funk. The group was made up of the Jackson brothers: Jackie, Tito, Jermaine, Marlon, Michael, and Randy. Michael was the lead singer.[4] They recorded on the famous Motown label for a long time. In 1975 they moved to another record label called CBS Records and changed their name to The Jacksons. Some of their songs were "I Want You Back", "ABC", "I'll Be There", "Santa Claus Is Coming to Town", and "I Saw Mommy Kissing Santa Claus". Michael left The Jacksons in 1984.
History

The Jackson 5 started in Gary, Indiana. They performed for the first time in 1964. Michael was six years old. In 1966, the Jackson 5 won a talent contest at a high school in Gary.
Motown

In 1968 The Jackson 5 were signed to Motown.

In December 1969 Motown released The Jackson 5's first album, Diana Ross Presents The Jackson 5. One single, "I Want You Back", was released from the album. It reached number one in the United States. The band's next two singles "ABC" and "The Love You Save" also reached number one. In 1970 the group had another number one, "I'll Be There". That year they released three studio albums, ABC, Third Album, and Jackson 5 Christmas Album. In 1971 they released two studio albums. Maybe Tomorrow was number one in the American soul albums chart for six weeks. Goin' Back to Indiana, a live album, was released in September. Motown also released the group's first Greatest Hits album.

Michael released his first album without his brothers, Got to Be There in January 1972. In 1972 the group released one album, Lookin' Through the Windows. In 1973 The Jackson 5 released two studio albums, Skywriter and Get It Together. They also released their second live album The Jackson 5 in Japan. In 1974 Dancing Machine was released. "Dancing Machine" reached number two.[5] In 1975 The Jackson 5's last album on Motown was released. Epic Records signed them. Jermaine left the band. His brother Randy took his place.[5]
The Jacksons

In 1976 the band released their first album as The Jacksons. It was their first album on Epic Records. It was written by Gamble And Huff. In 1977 Goin Places was released by Epic and Philadelphia International Records. Five singles were released from the album.

Destiny was released in 1978. It was written and produced by the brothers. "Blame It on the Boogie", a cover of a Mick Jackson song, was released as the first single from the album. The second single "Shake Your Body (Down to the Ground)" reached number seven in the US Billboard 100.[6]

Triumph was released in 1980. It reached number-one on the Billboard R&B Albums chart. Four singles were released from the album. In 1984 The Jacksons released a single with Mick Jagger called "State of Shock". Later that year Michael left the band after his album Thriller became the best-selling album ever released and won eight Grammy Awards.

The Jacksons released their last album, 2300 Jackson Street in 1989. Michael and Marlon were not in the album except on the single "2300 Jackson Street". Rebbie, La Toya, and Janet Jackson also sung on it.
Discography

Motown releases (as The Jackson 5)

Studio albums

    Diana Ross Presents The Jackson 5 (1969)
    ABC (1970)
    Third Album (1970)
    Maybe Tomorrow (1971)
    Lookin' Through the Windows (1972)
    Skywriter (1973)
    G.I.T.: Get It Together (1973)
    Dancing Machine (1974)
    Moving Violation (1975)

CBS/Epic releases (as The Jacksons)

    The Jacksons (1976)
    Goin' Places (1977)
    Destiny (1978)
    Triumph (1980)
    Victory (1984)
    2300 Jackson Street (1989)

References

Charlie Burton (February 7, 2018). "Inside the Jackson machine". GQ. Retrieved October 24, 2019.
Douglas Towne (March 2, 2018). "Mile-High Motown". The Phoenix. Retrieved September 12, 2021.
Timothy Guy (February 24, 2015). "FANTASY SPRINGS: Marlon Jackson talks about Jacksons' legacy". The Press-Enterprise. Archived from the original on February 7, 2022. Retrieved September 12, 2021.
"The Jackson 5 - Biography, Albums, Streaming Links". AllMusic.
"Inductee Explorer". Rock & Roll Hall of Fame.

    "Album Search for "destiny"". AllMusic.

Other websites

    Media related to The Jackson 5 at Wikimedia Commons

    vte

Michael Jackson

    Albums Singles Songs Videography Unreleased songs Awards Records and achievements Cultural impact

Studio albums	

    Got to Be There Ben Music & Me Forever, Michael Off the Wall Thriller Bad Dangerous HIStory: Past, Present and Future, Book I Invincible

Posthumous albums	

    Michael Xscape

Anniversary reissues	

    Thriller 25 Bad 25 Thriller 40

Remix albums	

    The Original Soul of Michael Jackson Blood on the Dance Floor: HIStory in the Mix The Stripped Mixes The Remix Suite

Soundtracks	

    The Wiz E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial Michael Jackson's This Is It Immortal

Compilations	

    The Best of Michael Jackson One Day in Your Life 18 Greatest Hits Farewell My Summer Love Looking Back to Yesterday The Michael Jackson Mix 20th Century Masters – The Millennium Collection: The Best of Michael Jackson Love Songs Number Ones The Essential Michael Jackson King of Pop The Definitive Collection Icon Scream

Box sets	

    Anthology The Ultimate Collection Visionary: The Video Singles The Motown Years The Collection Hello World: The Motown Solo Collection

Concert tours	

    Bad World Tour Dangerous World Tour HIStory World Tour This Is It (canceled)

Specials	

    Motown 25: Yesterday, Today, Forever Super Bowl XXVII halftime show MJ & Friends 30th Anniversary Celebration United We Stand: What More Can I Give Live at the Apollo

Video albums	

    Dangerous: The Short Films Video Greatest Hits – HIStory HIStory on Film, Volume II Number Ones The One Live in Bucharest: The Dangerous Tour Michael Jackson's Vision Live at Wembley July 16, 1988

Movies	

    The Wiz Michael Jackson's Thriller Captain EO Moonwalker Michael Jackson's Ghosts Michael Jackson's Private Home Movies Michael Jackson's This Is It

Television	

    Free to Be... You and Me The Jacksons "Stark Raving Dad" (The Simpsons) Michael Jackson Talks ... to Oprah Move Like Michael Jackson Living with Michael Jackson The Michael Jackson Interview: The Footage You Were Never Meant To See "The Jeffersons" (South Park) "Michael" (Glee) Michael Jackson's Halloween

Video games	

    Michael Jackson's Moonwalker The Experience Planet Michael Ready 2 Rumble Boxing: Round 2 Sonic the Hedgehog 3 Space Channel 5 Space Channel 5: Part 2 Dreamcast Collection

Books	

    Moonwalk Dancing the Dream

Documentaries	

    The Life of an Icon Bad 25 The Last Photo Shoots Michael Jackson's Journey from Motown to Off the Wall Square One: Michael Jackson Killing Michael Jackson Thriller 40

Biographical movies	
Theatrical movies	

    Michael

Television movies	

    The Jacksons: An American Dream (miniseries) Man in the Mirror: The Michael Jackson Story Searching for Neverland

Stage shows	

    Thriller – Live Michael Forever – The Tribute Concert The Immortal World Tour Motown: The Musical One MJ the Musical

Personal life	

    Health and appearance Personal relationships
        Jackson family Paris Jackson Lisa Marie Presley Debbie Rowe

Abuse allegations	

    1993 allegations 2005 trial Posthumous allegations FBI files

Death	

    Memorial service Conrad Murray
        trial

Influence	

    Moonwalk Robot Philanthropy Cover versions Monuments, memorials and namesakes Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award Mesoparapylocheles michaeljacksoni Thrill the World Thriller viral video World Vitiligo Day Sonic the Hedgehog Ulala Impersonators Michael Jackson fandom On the Wall Heal the World Foundation

Related	

    The Jackson 5 The Jackson 5 discography The Jackson 5ive Estate of Michael Jackson Thriller jacket Fulham F.C. statue The Magic and the Madness Michael Jackson and Bubbles MJ Gallery at Ponte 16 Behind the Mask "We Had Him" You Are Not Alone Michael Jackson, Inc. Hayvenhurst Neverland Ranch Thriller Villa The MJCast Northern Songs Sony/ATV Music Publishing Bubbles Peter Pan syndrome Mister Lonely We Are the World Mind Is the Magic: Anthem for the Las Vegas Show Never Can Say Goodbye: The Music of Michael Jackson Rava on the Dance Floor Unity: The Latin Tribute to Michael Jackson "Better on the Other Side" "Home" "Eat It" "Fat" Return of the Moonwalker Sheikh Jackson The Last Days of Michael Jackson Neverland Firsthand: Investigating the Michael Jackson Documentary Michael Jackson: Chase the Truth MJ (album)

    Category


This short article about music can be made longer. You can help Wikipedia by adding to it.
Categories:

    1964 establishments in the United States1960s American music groups1970s American music groups1980s American music groupsAfrican-American musical groupsAmerican boy bandsAmerican R&B bandsAmerican pop music groupsAmerican soul bandsPeople from IndianaMusical groups established in 1964Musical groups disestablished in 19891989 disestablishments in the United States

    This page was last changed on 19 November 2025, at 21:13. Page was rendered with Parsoid.
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License and the GFDL; additional terms may apply. See Terms of Use for details.

    Privacy policy
    About Wikipedia
    Disclaimers
    Code of Conduct
    Developers
    Statistics
    Cookie statement
    Mobile view

    Wikimedia Foundation
    Powered by MediaWiki

