

Wikipedia The Free Encyclopedia

Spider-Man

    Page
    Talk

Tools

From Simple English Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from Spiderman)
For other uses, see Spider-Man (disambiguation).
Spider-Man
Andrew Garfield as Spider-Man at San Diego Comic-Con in 2014
Publication information
Publisher	Marvel Comics
First appearance	Amazing Fantasy #15 (August 1962)
Created by	Stan Lee
Steve Ditko
In-story information
Alter ego	Peter Benjamin Parker
Species	Human mutate
Place of origin	Queens, New York City
Team affiliations	

    Avengers
    Fantastic Four
    Secret Defenders
    Future Foundation
    Daily Bugle
    Heroes for Hire
    X-Men
    League of Realms
    Mighty Avengers
    New Avengers
    S.H.I.E.L.D.
    Spider-Army / Web-Warriors

Partnerships	

    Black Cat
    Silk
    Spider-Man (Miles Morales)
    Spider-Woman (Gwen Stacy)
    Iron Man
    Daredevil
    Hulk
    Human Torch
    Wolverine
    Deadpool
    Captain America
    Doctor Strange

Notable aliases	Spidey, Ricochet,[1] Dusk,[2] Prodigy,[3] Hornet,[4] Ben Reilly,[5]
Scarlet Spider,[6] and Captain Universe[7]
Abilities	

    Superhuman strength, speed, reflexes, agility, coordination, and balance
    Ability to cling to solid surfaces
    Accelerated healing
    Genius level intellect
    Proficient scientist and engineer
    Precognitive spider-sense ability
    Utilizing wrist-mounted web-shooters or shoots organic webs
    Master martial artist and hand-to-hand combatant

Spider-Man is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. He was created by the writer Stan Lee and artist Steve Ditko. He first appeared in Amazing Fantasy #15 in August 1962. He was an orphan being raised by his Aunt May and Uncle Ben as an ordinary teenager. He would deal with the normal struggles of being young as well as the struggles of being a costumed crime fighter.

Spider-Man first appeared in the early 1960s, when teenagers in superhero comic books were usually only sidekicks to the protagonist. The series featured Peter Benjamin Parker, a high school student who frequently suffered rejection, inadequacy, and loneliness. Most young readers could easily relate to this.[8]: 210  Unlike some teen heroes, such as Bucky and Robin, Spider-Man never had any adult mentors like Captain America and Iron Man to teach him to be a superhero. He had to learn for himself that "with great power comes great responsibility" (Later comics had him learn that quote from his late Uncle Ben.)

Over the years, Marvel has used Spider-Man in a lot of different comic books. In some of them Peter Parker is a nerdy high school student. In others he’s a college student or high school teacher. He’s also been a photographer.

Spider-Man also has one of the most notable rogues galleries in comics including Green Goblin, Doctor Octopus, Sandman, Venom, Electro, Lizard, Vulture, Kraven the Hunter, Chameleon, Mysterio, Carnage, Shocker, Scorpion, Rhino, Hobgoblin, Hydro-Man, Black Cat, Punisher, Morbius, Molten-Man and Mr Negative to name a few.[9]

Spider-Man is a very popular superhero. He has appeared in cartoons and movies. He has been played by actors Tobey Maguire, Andrew Garfield, Tom Holland, among others. Live-action movies include Spider-Man (2002), Spider-Man 2 (2004), Spider-Man 3 (2007), The Amazing Spider-Man (2012), The Amazing Spider-Man 2 (2014), Spider-Man: Homecoming (2017), Spider-Man: Far From Home (2019), Spider-Man: No Way Home (2021), and Spider-Man: Brand New Day (2026).
Outfit

Spider-Man wears a red and blue costume. There is a drawing of a web on the suit's red parts. There are several other suits including the Iron Spider suit, the Scarlet Spider suit, and many more. These suits mostly follow the red and blue theme, with some exceptions including the Future Foundation suit, and the Symbiote Suit.
Fictional character biography

In Peter Parker's first appearance, he is introduced as an orphaned teenager who loves science and lives with his aunt and uncle in New York City. He constantly gets bullied by Eugene "Flash" Thompson, who calls him "Puny Parker" and humiliates him daily. One day, he is bitten by a radioactive spider. This gives him powers that turn him into Spider-Man.

As Spider-Man, he then becomes famous for wrestling on TV. One day at a studio, he refuses to stop a thief. He then learns that his Uncle Ben has been murdered and as Spider-Man, he tries to find the killer. When he does, he finds out that the killer is the thief that he didn’t stop. Learning that with great power comes great responsibility, Spider-Man becomes a vigilante. Peter and his aunt need money, so Peter gets a job as a photographer at the Daily Bugle selling photos to J. Jonah Jameson, who hates Spider-Man.

Peter graduates from high school and goes to college where he meets Harry Osborn and Gwen Stacy. Peter also finds out that Harry has a drug problem. Harry's father turns out to be a supervillain, The Green Goblin.
Powers, Abilities and Equipment

Spider-Man’s powers are strength, speed, healing, and agility. He can also jump very far stick to walls and sense danger and he built machines that he could use to shoot webs.

Peter Parker is a genius being considered one of the smartest men in the Marvel Universe, even Hank Pym, Reed Richards, Tony Stark and Otto Octavius are impressed by how smart he is.
Spider-Man in pop culture

Spider-Man is one of the most well-known superheroes ever created. His quote With great power comes great responsibility is one of the most popular superheroes quotes ever. He has also been in television and video games and most popularly Sam Raimi's film trilogy which includes Spider-Man, Spider-Man 2, and Spider-Man 3. The Amazing Spider-Man movies are also popular.
Television

In animation, he appeared in a 1967 television series named after him. He also appeared in "Spidey Super Stories" on The Electric Company. He appeared as a guest star in a Spider-Woman animated series. There was also a 1981 animated series of him, and then an animated series called Spider-Man and his Amazing Friends. In 1994, there was another series about him, and there was a spin-off called Spider-Man Unlimited. After the Sam Raimi movies, there was an animated series of Spider-Man on MTV called Spider-Man: The New Animated Series. In 2008, there was an animated series called The Spectacular Spider-Man. He appeared in The Super Hero Squad Show. In live-action, there is Amazing Spider-Man and a tokusatsu series of Spider-Man in Japan.
Movies
Main article: Spider-Man in movies

    Spider-Man Strikes Back (1978)
    Spider-Man The Dragon's Challenge (1979)
    Spider-Man (2002)
    Spider-Man 2 (2004)
    Spider-Man 3 (2007)
    The Amazing Spider-Man (2012)
    The Amazing Spider-Man 2 (2014)
    Spider-Man: Homecoming (2017)
    Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse (2018)
    Spider-Man: Far From Home (2019)
    Spider-Man: No Way Home (2021)
    Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse (2023)
    Spider-Man: Brand New Day (2026)
    Spider-Man: Beyond the Spider-Verse (2027)

References
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Spider-Man.
Wikiquote has a collection of quotations related to: Spider-Man

Amazing Spider-Man #434
Spider-Man #91
Spectacular Spider-Man #257
Sensational Spider-Man #27
Amazing Spider-Man Annual #36
Amazing Spider-Man #149–151
What If? (vol. 2) #31
Wright, Bradford W (2001). Comic Book Nation. Johns Hopkins Press. ISBN 0801874505.

    De Falco, Tom (2001). Spider-Man:The Ultimate Guide. Marvel.

    vte

Spider-Man

	

	

	

    vte

Spider-Man in movies
	

	

	

	

	

	

    vte

Spider-Man in television
	

	

Authority control databases Edit this at Wikidata
	

	

	

	

	

Categories:

    Marvel Comics superheroesCharacters created by Stan LeeFictional characters introduced in 1962Fictional orphansMarvel Comics adapted into moviesMarvel Comics mutatesFantastic FourSpider-ManFictional American people

    This page was last changed on 9 October 2025, at 18:05. Page was rendered with Parsoid.
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License and the GFDL; additional terms may apply. See Terms of Use for details.

    Privacy policy
    About Wikipedia
    Disclaimers
    Code of Conduct
    Developers
    Statistics
    Cookie statement
    Mobile view

    Wikimedia Foundation
    Powered by MediaWiki

